==================[Syllabus Start]==================
CSCI 360: Introduction to Articial
Intelligence (Spring 2024)
Units: 4
Instructor: Mohammad Reza Rajati, PhD
PHE 412
rajati@usc.edu { Include CSCI 360 in subject
Oce Hours: After Wednesday class, by appointment
TA(s): TBD
tbd@usc.edu { Include CSCI 360 in subject
Oce Hours: TBD
TBD
tbd@usc.edu { Include CSCI 360 in subject
Oce Hours: TBD
Lecture: Monday, Wednesday, 12:00 pm {1:50 pm, THH 101
Webpages: Piazza Class Page for everything except grades
and USC Blackboard Class Page for grades
and GitHub for code submission
{ All HWs, handouts, solutions will be posted in PDF format
Prerequisite: CSCI 104L, CSCI 170. Prior courses in calculus, linear algebra,
probability, and statistics will immensely help.
Other Requirements: Computer programming skills.
Using Python is mandatory.
Tentative Grading: Programming Assignments (Labs) 35%
Problem Sets 5%
Midterm Exam 1 25%
Midterm Exam 2 25%
Project 10%
Participation on Piazza* 5%
2 CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024
Letter Grade Distribution:
93.00 A 73.00 - 76.99 C
90.00 - 92.99 A- 70.00 - 72.99 C-
87.00 - 89.99 B+ 67.00 - 69.99 D+
83.00 - 86.99 B 63.00 - 66.99 D
80.00 - 82.99 B- 60.00 - 62.99 D-
77.00 - 79.99 C+ 59.99 F
Disclaimer: Although the instructor does not expect this syllabus to drastically change, he
reserves every right to change this syllabus any time in the semester.
Note on e-mail vs. Piazza: If you have a question about the material or logistics of the class
and wish to ask it electronically, please post it on the piazza page (not e-mail). You may post it
anonymously if you wish. Often times, if one student has a question/comment, other also have
a similar question/comment. Private Piazza posts to the whole instructor team should be used
to contact the professor, TA, graders only for issues that are specic to you individually (e.g., a
scheduling issue or grade issue)..
Catalogue Description: Concepts and algorithms underlying the understanding and construc-
tion of intelligent systems. Agents, problem solving, search, representation, reasoning, planning,
machine learning.
Course Description: Articial Intelligence (AI) seeks to understand the mechanisms underlying
thought and intelligent behavior, with a particular focus on their embodiment in machines. Core
topics include the integrating perspective of intelligent agents and how such systems can engage in:
search and problem solving; symbolic and probabilistic knowledge representation and reasoning;
planning; and machine learning. The course introduces both basic concepts and algorithms, and
explores how to apply these in the construction of systems that can interact intelligently with
complex environments. The course is intended for undergraduate students in computer science or
closely related disciplines, usually in the junior year. Graduate students should take CSCI 561
rather than CSCI 360.
Course Objectives: Upon successful completion of this course a student will
Broadly understand rationality and intelligence
Understand problem solving via search
Understand Uninformed and informed search algorithms
Understand adversarial search and games
Understand logical agents, logical inference, and knowledge-based systems
Understand automated planning
Understand decision theory
Understand supervised and unsupervised learning .
CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024 3
Understand classication and regression problems
Understand decision trees and interpretable learning.
Understand fuzzy sets and fuzzy rule mining
Understand Hebbian learning in neural systems
Understand feedforward neural networks and deep learning
Understand Reinforcement Learning
Exam Dates:
Midterm 1: Wednesday March 20, 12:00-1:50 PM, In Class.
Midterm 2: Wednesday April 24, 12:00-1:50 PM, In Class.
Final Project Due: Friday, May 3, 1:00 PM, as set by the university
Grace period : The project can be submitted until 11:59 PM of the same day with 20%
penalty. Any change in the project after the deadline is considered late submission. One
second late is late. The project is graded based on when it was submitted, not when it was
nished. Homework late days cannot be used for the project.
Important Note: Please make absolutely sure that you can make the above dates. No
make-up exams can be oered for any reason whatsoever. Moreover, no online exams will
be oered to on-campus students for any reason . If a student misses Midterm 1 due to a
valid reason (e.g., documented medical or family emergency), the grade of Midterm 2 will be
considered as the grade of Midterm 1. If a student misses Midterm 2 due to a valid reason,
they will receive a grade of IN (Incomplete) and they must take the exam in the next semester
with the students of that semester. Unexcused absence in an exam warrants a grade of zero.
Textbooks:
Required Textbook:
1. Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig, Articial Intelligence: A Modern Approach , 4thEdition,
Pearson, 2020. (AIMA)
Recommended Textbooks:
1. Gareth James, Daniela Witten, Trevor Hastie, and Robert Tibshirani, An Introduction
to Statistical Learning with Applications in Python , Springer, 2023.
Available at https://hastie.su.domains/ISLP/ISLP_website.pdf
2. David L. Poole and Alan K. Mackworth, Articial Intelligence: Foundations of Compu-
tational Agents , 2ndEdition, Cambridge University Press, 2017.
Available at https://artint.info/2e/html/ArtInt2e.html
3.Neural Networks and Learning Machines , 3rdEdition
Author: Simon Haykin; Pearson; 2008. ISBN-13: 978-0131471399
4 CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024
Grading Policies:
The letter grade distribution table guarantees the minimum grade each student will receive
based on their nal score. When appropriate, relative performance measures will be used to
assign the nal grade, at the discretion of the instructor.
{Final grades are non-negotiable and are assigned at the discretion of the instructor. If
you cannot accept this condition, you should not enroll in this course.
Your lowest grade in problem sets and your lowest grade in programming assignments (Labs)
will be dropped from the nal grade.
*Participation on Piazza has up to 5% extra credit, which is granted on a competetive basis
at the discretion of the instructor .
Homework Policy
{Homework is assigned on an approximately weekly basis. Homework due dates are
mentioned in the course outline, so mark your calendars. A three-day grace period can
be used for each homework with 10% penalty per day. Any change in homework after
the deadline makes it a late submission. Absolutely no late homework will be accepted
after the grace period. A late assignment results in a zero grade.
{Late Days: No late homework will be accepted after the three day grace period. One
second after the deadline is considered late. However, students are allowed to use sixlate
days for homework for any reason (including sickness, family emergencies, overwhelming
workload, exams, etc) without incurring the 10% penalty . Beyond that, no individual
extension will be granted to anyone for any reason whatsoever.
Suggestion : Try to save your six free late days for Labs, as much as you can. Problem
Sets are only worth 5% of the total score. Submitting one Problem Set three days late
will have a really tiny eect on your nal score. Nevertheless, you can use your late days
for Problem Sets as well. You are encouraged to submit all assignments on time for a
full learning experience.
Example : A student can submit six assignments, one day late each, without any penalty.
Or three assignments, two days late each, without penalty, or two assignments three days
late each. A student cannot use four late days for one assignment, and two late days for
another assignment. An assignment submitted four days late will receive a zero grade,
although its grade will be dropped as the lowest homework grade, according to the above
grading policies.
{Use your six late days strategically and only if you absolutely need them. Always
remember that later in the semester, you might become sick or have heavy workload in
other courses and might need to use your late days.
{Assignments are project-style ; therefore, we do not provide solutions to the assignments.
This is a rm rule.
{Poor internet connection, failing to upload properly, or similar issues are NOT acceptable
reasons for late submissions. If you want to make sure that you do not have such
problems, submit homework eight hours earlier than the deadline. Please do not ask the
instructor to make individual exceptions.
CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024 5
{Homework is graded based on when it was submitted, not when it was nished.
{Homework solutions and simulation results should be typed or scanned using scanners or
mobile scanner applications like CamScanner and uploaded (photos taken by cell-phone
cameras and in formats other than pdf will NOT be accepted). Programs and simulation
results have to be uploaded on GitHub as well.
{Students are encouraged to discuss homework problems with one another, but each
student must do their own work and submit individual solutions written/ coded in
their own hand. Copying the solutions or submitting identical homework sets is written
evidence of cheating. The penalty ranges from F on the homework or exam, to an F in
the course, to recommended expulsion.
{Posting the homework assignments and their solutions to online forums or sharing them
with other students is strictly prohibited and infringes the copyright of the instructor.
Instances will be reported to USC ocials as academic dishonesty for disciplinary action.
Exam Policy
{ Make-up Exams: No make-up exams will be given. If you cannot make the above
dates due to a class schedule conict or personal matter, you must drop the class. In
the case of a required business trip or a medical emergency, a signed letter from your
manager or physician has to be submitted. This letter must include the contact of your
physician or manager.
{An excused absence supported by documents in the rst midterm can be made up by
using the second midterm's grade in lieu of the rst midterm. An excused absence in
the second midterm results in an IN (incomplete) grade.
{Midterm and nal exams will be closed book and notes. Calculators may be allowed
(this will be announced before the exam) but computers and cell-phones or any devices
that have internet capability are not allowed. One letter size cheat sheet (back and front)
is allowed for the midterm. Two letter size cheat sheets (back and front) are allowed for
the nal.
{All exams are cumulative, with an emphasis on material presented since the last exam.
Project
{The nal project is more like a slightly extended homework that will be assigned in the
last week of classes as the nal summative experience.
{The project topic and steps will be provided to students, similar to homework assign-
ments.
{Projects must be nished individually .
{A short grace period of a few hours after the project deadline will be given to students
for 20% penalty. Late submissions will be graded zero. One second late is late.
{Project is graded based on when it was submitted, not when it was nished.
{Homework late days cannot be used for project in any circumstances.
Attendance:
{Students are required to attend all the lectures and discussion sessions and actively
participate in class discussions.
6 CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024
Important Notes :
Textbooks are secondary to the lecture notes and homework assignments.
Handouts and course material will be distributed.
Please use your USC email to register on Piazza and to contact the instructor and TAs.
CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024 7
Tentative Course Outline
Monday Wednesday
Jan 8th 1
Introduction and History of AI (AIMA
Ch. 1)10th 2
Intelligent Agents (AIMA Ch. 2)
15th
Martin Luther King Day17th 3
Problem Solving via Search (AIMA Ch.
3.1-3.3)
Problem Formulation
Examples
Search Algorithms
Best-rst Search
22nd 4
Problem Solving via Search (AIMA Ch.
3.3-3.4)
Uninformed Search
Depth-First Search
Breadth-First Search
Uniform Cost Search24th 5
Search in Complex Environments (AIMA
Ch. 3.5-3.6)
Informed Search
Greedy best-rst search
A* Search
Heuristic Functions
29th 6
Search in Complex Environments (AIMA
Ch. 4.1-4.2)
Local Search and Optimization
Hill Climbing
Evolutionary Algorithms
Simulated Annealing*
Particle Swarm Optimization*31st 7
Adversarial Search and Games (AIMA
Ch. 5.1-5.3)
Game Theory
Optimal Decisions and Min-Max
Alpha-Beta Pruning
Feb 5th 8
Review of Probability Theory (AIMA
Ch. 12.1-12.5)
Quantifying Uncertainty
Probability Axioms
Events and Logic
Probability Distributions
Independence
Total Probability and The Bayes' Rule7th 9
Decision Theory (AIMA Ch. 16.1-16.5)
Utility Theory
Rational Preferences
Utility Functions
Decision Networks*
8 CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024
Monday Wednesday
12th 10
Agents that Learn from Experience and
Data (AIMA Ch. 19.1-19.2, 19.4, 19.9)
What is Machine Learning?
Supervised, Unsupervised, and Reinforcement
Learning
Regression and Classication
The Bias-Variance Trade-o
No Free Lunch!14th 11
Classication (AIMA Ch. 19.7.3)
Bayes' Optimal Classiers and KNN
Logistic Regression*
19th
President's Day21st 12
Classication (AIMA Ch. 12.6)
Bayesian Learning and Na ve Bayes' Learning
Text Classication
26th 13
Regression (AIMA Ch. 19.6.1-19.6.3, 19.7.4)
Minimum Mean-Squared Error Regression
KNN Regression
Linear Regression28th 14
Decision Trees (AIMA Ch. 19.3)
Regression and Classication Trees
Mar 4th 15
Agents that Think Humanly
Fuzzy Sets
Fuzzy Inference
Interpretable Learning Using Fuzzy
Rule-Based Systems6th 16
Supervised Hebbian Learning
Perceptron Learning Rule
Hopeld Neural Networks
11th
Spring Recess13th
Spring Recess
18th 17
Neural Networks and Deep Learning
(AIMA Ch. 21)
Feedforward Neural Networks
Backpropagation and Gradient Descent
Overtting
Regularization20th 18
Midterm 1
CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024 9
Monday Wednesday
25th 19
Reinforcement Learning * (AIMA Ch.
22.3.3-22.5)
Denitions
Task-Reward-Policy Formulation
Total Discounted Future Reward
Optimal Policy
Value Function
Q-Function
The Bellman Equation
Q-Learning
Exploration- Exploitation
Extensions to Stochastic Environments and
Rewards
Deep Reinforcement Learning27th 20
Unsupervised Learning
K-Means Clustering
Hierarchical Clustering
Competitive Learning and Self-Organizing
Maps*
Apr 1st 21
Logical Agents (AIMA Ch. 7.1-7.3)
Knowledge-Based Agents
Logic3rd 22
Propositional Logic (AIMA Ch. 7.4-7.5)
Aristotelian Logic
Inference
Theorem Proving
Forward and Backward Chaining
8th 23
First-Order Logic (AIMA Ch. 8.1-8.4)
Knowledge Representation via Logic
Syntax and Semantics
Existential and Universal Quantication
Applications
Knowledge Engineering*10th 24
Inference in First-Order Logic (AIMA
Ch. 9.1-9.2)
Inference
15th 25
Knowledge-Based Systems (AIMA Ch.
9.3-9.4)
Forward and Backward Chaining17th 26
Search-Based Planning* (AIMA Ch.
11.1-11.4)
Classical Planning Formulation
Automated Planning Algorithms
22nd 27
Search-Based Planning* (AIMA Ch.
11.1-11.4)
Heuristics
Hierarchical Planning24th 28
Midterm 2
Items marked by * will be covered only if time permits.
10 CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024
Homework Due Dates & Exams
Friday
Jan 12th 1
-
19th 2
-
26th 3
Lab 0 Due (not graded)
Feb 2nd 4
Problem Set 1 Due
9th 5
Lab 1 Due
16th 6
Problem Set 2 Due
23rd 7
Lab 2 Due
Mar 1st 8
Problem Set 3 Due
8th 9
Problem Set 4 Due
15th 10
Spring Recess
22nd 11
Lab 3 Due
29th 12
Problem Set 5 Due
Apr 5th 13
Lab 4 Due
12th 14
Problem Set 6 Due
19th 15
Problem Set 7 Due
26th 16
-
CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024 11
Statement on Academic Conduct and Support Systems
Academic Conduct:
Plagiarism { presenting someone else's ideas as your own, either verbatim or recast in your own
words { is a serious academic oense with serious consequences. Please familiarize yourself with the
discussion of plagiarism in SCampus in Part B, Section 11, \Behavior Violating University Stan-
dards" policy.usc.edu/scampus-part-b. Other forms of academic dishonesty are equally unaccept-
able. See additional information in SCampus and university policies on Research and Scholarship
Misconduct.
Using Generative AI and Large Language Models:
Use of AI and specically Large Language Models (LLMs) is allowed. However, it is only allowed
as a tool to assist in learning. That is to say, that you may use AI models such as ChatGPT or
Claude 2 to help understand the assignments, to ask generic questions about programming and to
generate code samples that could be of use to explain how certain programming constructs work.
Submitting assignments completely generated by AI is strictly prohibited and when discovered will
be awarded 0 points for the assignment. We will be utilizing additional software to check for code
generated by an AI.
Students and Disability Accommodations:
USC welcomes students with disabilities into all of the University's educational programs. The
Oce of Student Accessibility Services (OSAS) is responsible for the determination of appropriate
accommodations for students who encounter disability-related barriers. Once a student has com-
pleted the OSAS process (registration, initial appointment, and submitted documentation) and
accommodations are determined to be reasonable and appropriate, a Letter of Accommodation
(LOA) will be available to generate for each course. The LOA must be given to each course in-
structor by the student and followed up with a discussion. This should be done as early in the
semester as possible as accommodations are not retroactive. More information can be found at
osas.usc.edu. You may contact OSAS at (213) 740-0776 or via email at osasfrontdesk@usc.edu.
Support Systems:
Counseling and Mental Health - (213) 740-9355 { 24/7 on call
studenthealth.usc.edu/counseling
Free and condential mental health treatment for students, including short-term psychotherapy,
group counseling, stress tness workshops, and crisis intervention.
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline - 1 (800) 273-8255 { 24/7 on call
suicidepreventionlifeline.org
Free and condential emotional support to people in suicidal crisis or emotional distress 24 hours
a day, 7 days a week.
Relationship and Sexual Violence Prevention Services (RSVP) - (213) 740-9355(WELL), press
\0" after hours { 24/7 on call
12 CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024
studenthealth.usc.edu/sexual-assault
Free and condential therapy services, workshops, and training for situations related to gender-
based harm.
Oce for Equity, Equal Opportunity, and Title IX (EEO-TIX) - (213) 740-5086
eeotix.usc.edu
Information about how to get help or help someone aected by harassment or discrimination, rights
of protected classes, reporting options, and additional resources for students, faculty, sta, visitors,
and applicants.
Reporting Incidents of Bias or Harassment - (213) 740-5086 or (213) 821-8298
usc-advocate.symplicity.com/care report
Avenue to report incidents of bias, hate crimes, and microaggressions to the Oce for Equity, Equal
Opportunity, and Title for appropriate investigation, supportive measures, and response.
The Oce of Student Accessibility Services (OSAS) - (213) 740-0776
osas.usc.edu
OSAS ensures equal access for students with disabilities through providing academic accommoda-
tions and auxiliary aids in accordance with federal laws and university policy.
USC Campus Support and Intervention - (213) 821-4710
campussupport.usc.edu
Assists students and families in resolving complex personal, nancial, and academic issues adversely
aecting their success as a student.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion - (213) 740-2101
diversity.usc.edu
Information on events, programs and training, the Provost's Diversity and Inclusion Council, Diver-
sity Liaisons for each academic school, chronology, participation, and various resources for students.
USC Emergency - UPC: (213) 740-4321, HSC: (323) 442-1000 { 24/7 on call
dps.usc.edu,emergency.usc.edu
Emergency assistance and avenue to report a crime. Latest updates regarding safety, including
ways in which instruction will be continued if an ocially declared emergency makes travel to
campus infeasible.
USC Department of Public Safety - UPC: (213) 740-6000, HSC: (323) 442-120 { 24/7 on call
dps.usc.edu Non-emergency assistance or information.
Oce of the Ombuds - (213) 821-9556 (UPC) / (323-442-0382 (HSC)
ombuds.usc.edu
A safe and condential place to share your USC-related issues with a University Ombuds who will
work with you to explore options or paths to manage your concern.
Occupational Therapy Faculty Practice - (323) 442-3340 or otfp@med.usc.edu
chan.usc.edu/otfp
CSCI 360 Syllabus { January 8, 2024 13
Condential Lifestyle Redesign services for USC students to support health promoting habits and
routines that enhance quality of life and academic performance.

===================[Syllabus End]===================
Please examine the attached course syllabus carefully and provide detailed answers to the research questions (RQ) listed below. Each question focuses on specific aspects of "computing systems" tailored for AI/ML scalability. We are looking for specific issues and topics related to compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, code optimization, programming model for AI/ML covered in the syllabus. Programming with Python or jupyter does not count as computing system topics.

RQ 1. Course Content and Frequency:
1.1 How frequently are topics explicitly related to "computing system" specialized for ML/AI discussed in the course? 
The topics are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in likert scale: 
Frequent (4): At least one dedicated lecture discussed the topics.
Intermittent (3): The topics are discussed occasionally. 
Infrequent (2): The topics are rarely mentioned.
Never mentioned (1): The topics are never mentioned.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 2. Definition and Understanding:
2.1 How are the impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML explicitly defined and explained in undergraduate curricula? 
The definition and explanation should include concepts of 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): Provide detailed definition and explanation.
Inadequate (2): Many of the topics missed significant discussion in lectures or in assignments.
Undefined (1): The topics are mostly undefined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
2.2 Do courses provide a comprehensive and explicit definition of impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML?
The definition and explanation should include concepts such as 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer by providing the list of above topics (1 to 9) discussed in the course. Make it short and direct. Limit in 100 words. Do not include topics unrelated to "computing systems" like general ML/AI algorithms.

RQ 3. Requirement Specification:
3.1 How are computational performance and capability requirements for hardware and software systems running scalable AI/ML, explicitly specified and discussed in undergraduate courses?
Topics include 1) Computational Power (CPU, GPU, TPU, Edge AI chips), Memory and Storage, Network for scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) Distributed Computing Frameworks such as TensorFlow's Distributed Strategy, PyTorch's Distributed Data Parallel (DDP), and Horovod 3)  Optimization Techniques such as Efficient Algorithm, Quantization, Prunning 4) Programming Models and Abstractions such as High-Level Libraries (Tensorflow, PyTorch, Keras)
Answer in Likert scale: 
Quantitatively (3): The lectures or assignments provide numerical values for computational performance and capability requirements such as latency, throughput, resource utilization etc.
Qualitatively (2): The lectures used descriptive terms.
No guidelines (1): The Lecture provide no guidelines.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
3.2 How did the discussion of “computing system” requirements rank against the discussion of general AI/ML topics?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Equally discussed with other AI/ML topics (3)
“computing system” requirements is a sub topic (2) 
“computing system” requirements were never discussed (1) 
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 4. Influence and Importance:
4.1 How is the importance of various “computing system” factors of designing and maintaining scalable AI/ML emphasized in the course?
The factors are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training and inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Holistic (2): The course took into account of many of the above factors.
System (1): The course viewed the factors as low level system issue, relegating responsibility to correct choice of hardware, programming model and AI/ML framework.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.

RQ 5. Case Studies and Real-World Applications:
5.1 Are real-world case studies involving hardware and software systems for AI/ML, with a focus on scalable model training, inference, and serving explicitly included in the curriculum?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Major (2): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was the major concerns of the case studies.
Minor (1): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was not a major concern of the case studies.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 6. Awareness and Integration of AI-Specific Engineering Practices:
6.1 Do the courses discuss contributions and best practices from AI/ML system engineering communities, specifically in areas such as compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, and code optimization?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The courses thoroughly cover contributions from AI/ML system engineering communities and best practices in detail by depicting from state of art.
Inadequate (2): The courses mention the topic but do not cover it in sufficient depth or detail.
Undefined (1): The coverage of this topic in the courses is unclear or not well-defined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 7. Projects and Practical Implementation:
7.1 To what extent do the assignments in the course provide hands-on experience with designing, building, and maintaining both scalable hardware and software systems for AI/ML, specifically focusing on compiler optimization, optimizing runtime systems, hardware acceleration, or code optimization for AI/ML?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The assignments thoroughly cover these areas and provide extensive hands-on experience.
Inadequate (2): The assignments cover these areas minimally and do not provide sufficient hands-on experience.
None (1): The assignments do not cover these areas or provide relevant hands-on experience.
Could not be evaluated (0): Insufficient information or exposure to the assignments on the syllabus to provide an evaluation.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
