==================[Syllabus Start]==================
 
   
  
 COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING , UIC  
CS 412: Introduction to Machine Learning  (CRN: 43875, 43876) 
3 credit hours (undergraduates) or 4 credit hours (graduates)  
Fall 2023 
 
 
I. Instructor & Course Details  
 
Prof. Xinhua Zhang   
Email address: zhangx@uic.edu  
Drop -In Office Hours (in -person and virtual): 4-5 PM, Thursday .  Starting from week 2 . 
Drop -In Hours location: Both Zoom and in person at North End, Level 3, Daley Library .  Zoom 
link: see Section II below.  
 
 
TA: Wenzhe Fan  
Email address: wfan23@uic.edu  
Drop -In Office Hours (in -person and virtual): 1-2 PM, Wednesday .  Starting from week 2.  
Drop -In Hours location: Both Zoom and in person at North End, Level 3, Daley Library .  Zoom 
link: same as  the professor’s.  
 
 
Blackboard Course Site  (should be automatically  linked to your Blackboard account)  
Students are expected to log into the course site regularly to learn about any developments 
related to the course, upload assignments, and communicate with classmates.  For all technic al 
questions about Blackboard, email the Learning Technology Solutions team at LTS@uic.edu . 
 
Course Modality  
 This course is taught ON CAMPUS .  
- Time: Monday, Wednesday, and Friday: 4 -4:50 PM  
- LOCATION: LC C4  
   
II. Course Information  
 
Catalog Course Description and Prerequisite/corequisite Statement   
 
Machine learning is the study of systems that improve automatically based on past experience. 
This course will introduce common machine learning tasks (e.g., classification, density 
 
   
 
2 
 estimation, clustering) and some of the successful machine learning techni ques and broader 
paradigms that have been developed for these tasks. The course is programming - intensive and 
a large emphasis will be placed on tying machine learning techniques to specific real- world 
applications through hands -on experience.  
 
Prerequisit e: CS 251, IE 342 or STAT 381, or consent of instructor.  
 To ensure that all students understand the math required in course, a self- evaluation will be 
posted on Piazza, along with some background math readings.  
 How much linear algebra is needed?  
Linear algebra is not a prerequisite because we will only use a fraction of it.  Make sure you can understand  
1) Sections 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 2.6 of [GBC] (see textbook below)  
2) Section 4.1 of this book up to Equation 4.8.  
 If you would like to audit, ple ase send an email to the instructor.  
 Course materials and assignments can be complex and challenging, but they are crucial to your intellectual and personal growth and development. There are times you may need extra help. Students who attend class consistently, complete all assignments, thoughtfully engage with feedback on work, develop good study strategies, visit the tutoring center, and contact faculty when struggling can develop a thorough understanding of the course material and ultimately succeed in the course!  
  
Course Goals and Learning Outcomes   
 
By the end of this course, you will be able to:  
 
1. Distinguish between the mechanisms of different machine learning task settings (e.g., classification, regression, dimensionality reduction, density estimation, clustering), and model real world applications using the appropriate learning frameworks.  
  2. Apply the underlying mathematical rationale of common machine learning models to derive the learning algorithms in a principled fashion.  
  3. Implement common machine learning algorithms for classification, dimensionality reduction, density estimation,  and clustering using Python.  
  4. Apply common machine learning algorithms to real world datasets, and evaluate their 
performance measures.  
 
 
   
 
3 
 This is an elective course.  
 
Brief list of topics to be covered : basic linear algebra, probability and statistics ; supervised 
learning, design and analysis of ML experiments & cross validation; Bayes decision theory;  
parametric methods; multivariate methods; naïve Bayes; Bayesian estimation applied to naïve 
Bayes; clustering; decision trees; linear discrimination; kernel machines; multilayer Perceptrons, convolutional networks . 
 
Required and Recommended Course Materials  
 
Required Texts (available electronically via UIC library or web)  
 
Ethem Alpaydin, Introduction to Machine Learning , 3rd edition. MIT Press, 2014.  
 Reference:  
  
[GBC
] Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville,  Deep Learning . MIT Press, 
2016.   Free online book.  
[Murphy ] Kevin P. Murphy.  Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective . MIT Press, 
2012.    ( PDF available from UIC library)  
 
Besides lecture notes, there will als o be four tutorials.  They are meant to help you 
understand the subject and work out the assignments.  It only for reference; nothing needs to be submitted for them. The scope of the final exam will be the union of lectures, assignments, and tutorials. Some questions in the tutorial are explicitly marked as "only to understand, not a requirement to derive by yourself"; they won't appear in the exam.  
 You will need to use numpy a lot in the labs. Here is a numpy primer: 
Python Data Science 
Handbook , covering numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib. You should at least know that y = 
xMatrix[0] is a shallow copy, where xMatrix is a 2 -D numpy array. Understand how to make 
a deep copy. The book provides many notebooks  for learning. You can create your Jupyter 
notebook to run on Google Cloud, or locally on your own machine via VS Code  and 
Anaconda  (as opposed to directly downlo ading Python from the official site ). Anaconda is 
the choice for data science. Data used in this lab has been processed for your convenience.  
 
Required Technology  
 
Piazza  https://piazza.com/class/llbny1j3sbl5y1   
You can register using your UIC netid with no need of instructor’s approval.  
Master 
Schedule   https://piazza.com/class/llbny1j3sbl5y1/post/6   
 
   
 
4 
 First register on Piazza as above. This schedule is pinned on top of the le ft list.  
Gradescope  https://www.gradescope.com/courses/572404    
All your grades and feedback will be here.  
You can log in with School Credentials or via Blackboard (left banner).  
Zoom  https://uic. zoom.us/j/83877346394?pwd=M1g3L09LRkp0cjYxTmh0ektCN2xNdz09  
If needed, the password  is: vMETige0     The meeting ID is: 838 7734 6394  
This is for recitation and office hour.   In addition to in -person visits, you can also join 
office hours by Zoom, for both the instructor and the TA.  First come first served on a 
joint queue.  
Blackboard  Announcement only  
Google 
Drive https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1PkydrzKzDD8fGW9JPO5kvTl_0HyM7A -
2?usp=sharing    
Questions of assignments and labs, a long with rubrics and solutions.  
To access it, make sure you log in with your UIC netid ( not your personal account).  
 
 
Use of Online Tools ( see the URLs in the above table) 
 
What  Where  Who can access  
Week 1 and 2  Week 3 and onwards  
Slides and other documents  Piazza  Anyone1 Registered + Auditing  
Technical discussion, Q&A      Piazza  2, 3 Anyone  Registered + Auditing  
Announcement    Blackboard 4 Registered + 
Auditing  Registered + Auditing  
Echo 360 of lecture recordings (also 
streaming in real time) 5 Blackboard  Registered + 
Auditing  Registered + Auditing  
Office hour (not recorded)  Zoom   
+ In person  Anyone  Anyone  
Recitation (recorded)  Piazza  Anyone  Registered + Auditing  
Assignment submission + grading  Gradescope  N.A.  Registered only  
Assignment questions + solutions  Google Drive  Anyone  Registered only  
iClicker  App Anyone  Registered + Auditing  
 
for collaboration within groups (but not for instruction)  
 
   
 
5 
 Teams, Slack            Github, Bitbucket           Box.com, Onedrive, Google drive  
 
1. Anyone refers to anyone with a UIC netid.  Contact the instructor if you do not have it.  
 
2. Piazza is highly catered to getting you help fast and efficiently from classmates and the 
instructing team (professor and TA ).  Rather than emailing questions to the instructing 
team, you are encouraged to post on Piazza your technical  questions , general questions 
about the course content, assignments, grading rubric, etc.  If you have any problems or feedback for the Piazza developers, email team@piazza.com
. 
 
3. If you have any personal or non -technical questions  such as medical considerations, 
please send an email directly to the instructor or the TA (if instructed to do so, e.g., dispute plagiarism suspect).  Re -grading of assignments should be requested on 
Grad escope (not email).  
 
4. For general announcements and notifications, I will send emails to the whole class via Blackboard . Please check your email frequently, especially around deadlines (homework 
and exam).  The message will also be recorded on Blackboard in  the announcement 
section.  
 
5. We strongly recommend attending the lectures in person.  The online option is only for those we really cannot make it due to health reasons, etc.  In any case, we will use iClicker for quick quizzes at some random time of each lecture.  This will ensure constant engagement.  
 
It is your responsibility to check emails frequently (at least once a day).  
 
 
Software and hardware  
1. Python for labs.  You can use any language for the course project.  
2. You are required to use collaborative tools for labs and course project, including  
a. Slack or Teams for messaging. UIC does not have license for slack, but the free 
version might be sufficient.  
b. Github or Bitbucket for code maintenance (free with their respective education 
packs).  
c. Box, Onedrive, or Google -cloud for file sharing (all free from UIC).   
3. Scanner on phone/pad: scan your answer, NOT just take a photo .  Use a scanner app on 
your mobile device , e.g., CamScanner  (https://www.camscanner.com/ ).  Register using 
your UIC email address and it will remove a watermark.  Feel free to use similar apps.  
4. Time management by Google  calendar, Outlook, etc.  
 
   
 
6 
  5. Keep the iClicker app on your computer or mobile device up to date at spare time.  
 
Respect for Copyright  
Please protect the copyright integrity of all course materials and content. Please do not upload 
course materials not created by you onto third -party websites or share content with anyone 
not enrolled in our course.   
 
III. COURSE POLICIES & CLASSROOM EXPECTATIONS  
 
Grading Policy and Point Breakdown  
 
The understanding of course material and synthesis of knowledge will be evaluated using  
1. In-class quizzes conducted by iClicker.  Each class may have multiple quiz questions that you 
will need to answer on the iClicker app.   
2. Eleven (11) light -weight individual written assignments will be due approximately every 
week.  They focus on conceptual understanding.  For simplicity, I wil l henceforth just call 
them “assignments”.  Graduate students will have slightly more questions to solve.  
3. A course project.  Groups will be formed to conduct a course project, with four (4) students 
in each group.  The project, which is open -topic, aims to  apply machine learning techniques 
to “real world” datasets.  It will have a proposal  due in week 10, an oral presentation in the 
lectures of week 15, and a report  due in week 15.  
Each group can have a mix of graduate and undergraduate students .  You can find 
teammates by going to Piazza , and a random grouping will be organized as the last resort.  To 
find the email address (i.e., netid) by first and last name, try https://www.uic.edu/apps/find -
people . 
4. Seven (7) labs, due every 2 weeks.  The language will be Python only.  The topics and tasks 
will be given. Lab 1 is for individual work and is mandatory.   
For lab 2 -7, you can either work individually or in groups (same groups as in the course 
project).  To submit as a group, just specify your teammates on Gradescope. Undergraduates are expected to submit 5 individual or group labs (lab 1 included), and grad uate students are 
expected to submit 6 individual or group labs.  By expectation, it means how the total score of the entire course is calculated, based on which 85% will be A, etc; see below.  So effectively, undergraduates have two labs to earn extra marks from, while graduates have one.  
5. Two 50-min mid-term exam s and a 120 -min final  exam.  
 
Partial grading will be used in all assessments.  
 
Grading Policy . The overall course grade of each student will be determined based on:  
 
   
 
7 
 1. (4%) In -class iClicker quiz from week 3 to 14 : 10 points * 23 lectures  
2. (21%) Eleven (11) written assignments: 100 points each for undergraduates, and there are 
five assignments of 160 points for graduate students.  
3. (19%) Seven (7) labs: 200 points each.  Undergraduate and graduate students are expected 
to submit 5 and 6 labs, respectively.  
4. (15%) Course project: 800 points  
5. (15%) Two m idterm exams : 800 points for undergraduates and 880 points for graduates.   
That is, 400 or 440 points for each midterm exam.  
6. (26%) Final exam: 1400 points fo r undergraduates and 1540 points for graduates.  
 The percentages in parenthesis are computed based on undergraduate’s points.  The total earned points will be used to determine the final letter grade (A/B/…) based on threshold: 
 
 Total points  A (85%)  B (70%)  C (55%)  D (40%)  F (<40%)  
Undergraduate  X = 5330  4530.5  3731  2931.5  2264  0 
Graduate  Y = 6050  5142.5  4235  3327.5  2576  0 
 
     X = 23*10 + 11*100 + 5*200 + 800 + 800 + 1400 = 5330  
     Y = 23*10 + 6*100 + 5*160 + 6*200 + 800 + 880 + 1540 = 6050  
   
Important  Note:  In order to pass the course, undergraduate students must earn at least 
1100  points from midterm and final exams combined, while graduate students must earn at 
least 1210  points.  
 
I reserve the right to raise  your letter grade.   
 
 
Policy for Missed or Late Work  
 
1. Late submission s: Unless specified otherwise, all deadlines will be Chicago time.  Late  
submissions will not be accepted  in any case,  unless  there  is a documented  personal  
emergency.   Arrangements  must  be made  with  the instructor  as soon  as possible  after  the 
emergency  arises,  preferably well before the homework due  date.  
 
Advice: If for whatever reason you don’t manage to finish an assignment, hand in what you  
have.   Partial  credit will be given . 
 
2. Statute  of limitations : No grading  questions  or complaints  — no matter  how  justified  — will 
be listened  to TWO  weeks  after  the grade  in question has been  released.  
 
3. Missed exams : Missed exams cannot be made up unless there are extenuating 
circumstances (death, severe illness, etc.) and  the student has e -mailed instructor in 
 
   
 
8 
 writing  at least 24 hours before the exam, unless the situation is an emergency.  Example 
reasons that do n ot qualify include another exam/deadline/presentation/interview (and 
alike) due on the same day, an appointment/duty/flight/travel that can be rescheduled or 
booked to a later date.  
 
A mark of 0 is earned for the exam if the above policy is not adhered to.  
 
Week 16 is the week for the final exam.  The date for the final exam will be announced later.  The university will schedule it.  An announcement will be posted on the Blackboard.  
 
• This means that the final exam can take place as early as Monday at 8am or as late as Friday at 8pm.   
• You have to be available in person for the final examination; do not schedule any conflicting 
and unavoidable compromises during the final’s week (e.g., international flight on Friday at 12noon hoping that the final will take place befor e that).  Special accommodations for 
students abroad and in different time zones must be requested during the first two  weeks  
of class . 
 
 
Attendance / Participation Policy  
 
We strongly recommend you attend the lectures in person.  In case this is occasionally difficult, 
we have enabled streaming on Echo 360.  We will have random i -Clicker quizzes during the 
lecture, which allows remote participation.  This is meant to promote  engagement even if you 
cannot attend in person.   
Please email me if you face an unexpected situation that may impede your participation in 
required exam sessions, or timely completion of assignments.  
 
Other Course Policies  
 
Academic Integrity  
As a student and member of the UIC community, you are expected to adhere to the Community 
Standards  of academic integrity , accountability, and respect. Please review the UIC S tudent 
Disciplinary Policy  f or additional information.  
 Academic dishonesty will not be tolerated. Please see the CS department policy below on the topic;  this
 policy  specifies  penalties  for violations.  Academic misconduct will be handled 
according to UIC's Student Disciplinary Policy: http://dos.uic.edu/conductforstudents.shtml  
 
What is academic dishonesty? To hand in any work which is not 100% the student’s creation, 
unless  you are explicitly allowed to do so.   The CS Department will not tolerate cheating by its 
 
   
 
9 
 students. The MINIMUM penalty for any student found cheating will be to receive an F for the 
course and to have the event recorded in a department and/or College record. The maximum 
penalty will be expulsion from the University.   Cheating includes , but not limited to,  the following:  
 
• Copying or any other form of getting or giv ing assistance from another student during any 
test, quiz, exam, midterm, etc.  
• Plagiarism– turning in writing that is copied from some other source.  
• Obtaining solutions to homework by posting to the Internet for assistance, purchasing 
assistance, obtaining copies of solutions manuals for instructors, and obtaining copies of 
previous year’s homework solutions.  
• Computer programs: Any time you look at another student’s code, it is cheating. (Exception: 
If you are EXPLICITLY told that you may do so by the instructor.)  
 
All the work you submit must be your own; you should not use paraphrasing software like 
(QuillBot), or AI software for writing (like ChatGPT), or any AI tool for content generation (spell -
checkers are allowed) – unless explicitly allowed to d o so. If in doubt about a specific tool, ask.  
 Collaboration Policy  
 
1. Written assignments: Discussion of homework assignments and solutions with other 
students is permitted. However, each student must submit his or her own write -up for the 
homework assignment and fully understand what he or she submits. Each student should be prepared to explain his or her homework assignment submissions to the instructor and teach ing assistant if his or her “full understanding” is in doubt.  
 
2. Course project and labs:  all members of each group should make nearly the same amount of 
contribution to each lab and project.  All members should be responsible for the whole 
submission of  the team, not only his/her own contributed part.  You are supposed to 
understand the work of your teammates inside out and be able to answer questions when asked.  If one member plagiarized, then all members  of the team will receive the same  penalty.  
Find teammates for experiment & course project by “Search for Teammates!” on Piazza.  
 For computer programs, if we cannot determine which team copied from which, we may, at our
 
discretion, give failing grades to both groups.  It is the responsibility of all e ngineering and 
computer science professionals to safeguard their  company’s  “trade secrets.” An employee 
who allows trade secrets to be obtained by competitors will almost  certainly  be fired. So, YOU 
are responsible for making sure that your directories have permissions set so that  only  you can 
read  your  files,  for being  sure  to log out at the end of working  in the computer  lab, etc. 
 
3. Exams:  All work on the midterm and final exams must be individually performed.  
 
 
Email Expectations  
 
   
 
10 
  Students are responsible for all information instructors send to your UIC email and Blackboard 
accounts. Faculty messages should be regularly monitored and read in a timely fashion.  
  
IV. COURSE SCHEDULE  
 
See the tentative schedule below.  An up- to-date schedule is available on Piazza (link available 
on the first page of this syllabus).   Starting from week 3, written assignments are due almost 
every week, while the labs due almost every two weeks.  
 
 
   
 
11 
 Week  Topic  Readings  
1 Introduction  Chapter 1 of Alpaydin  
1-2 Basic linear algebra, probability and statistics  Chapter 2.1- 2.3 of GBC  
Chapter 2.1- 2.3 of Murphy  
2 Supervised learning  Chapter 2 of Alpaydin  
3 Design and Analysis of ML Experiments &  
cross validation  Chapter 19 of Alpaydin  
Supplementary slides  
3-4 Bayes decision theory  Ch 3 -3.4 of Alpaydin  
4 Parametric methods  Chapter 4.1 -4.5 of Alpaydin  
5 Multivariate methods  + Midterm  Chapter 5 of Alpaydin  
6 Naïve Bayes  Chapter 5.7 of Alpaydin  
Chapter 3.5.1, 3.5.2 of Murphy  
7 Bayesian estimation applied to naïve Bayes  Chapter 16.1, 16.2 of Alpaydin  
8 Clustering  Chapter 7 of Alpaydin  
9 Revision and course project introduction   
10 Decision Trees  + Midterm  Chapter 9 of Alpaydin  
11 Linear discrimination  Chapter 10 of Alpaydin  
12 Kernel machines  Chapter 13 of Alpaydin  
13 Multilayer Perceptrons  Chapter 11 of Alpaydin  
14 Convolutional networks  Chapter 9 of GBC  
15 Course project presentation  
 
 
   
 
12 
  
  
 
Disclaimer   
This syllabus is intended to give the student guidance on what may be covered during the semester and will be followed as closely as possible. However, as the instructor, I reserve the right to modify, supplement, and make changes as course needs arise. I will communicate such changes in advance through in- class announcements and in writing via Blackboard 
Announcements.  
    
V. ACCOMMODATIONS  
 
Disability Accommodation Procedures  
UIC is committed to full inclusion and participation of people with disabilities in all aspects of 
university life. If you face or anticipate disability -related barriers while at UIC, please connect 
with the Disability Resource Center (DRC) at drc.uic.edu , via email at drc@uic.edu , or call (312) 
413- 2183 to create a plan for reasonable accommodations. To receive accommodations, you 
will need to disclose the disability to the DRC, complete an interactive registration process with 
the DRC, and provi de me with a Letter of Accommodation (LOA). Upon receipt of an LOA, I will 
gladly work with you and the DRC to implement approved accommodations.  
 
Religious Accommodations  
Following campus policy , if you wish to observe religious holidays, you must notify me by the 
tenth day of the semester. If the religious holiday is observed on or before the tenth day of the 
semester, you must notify me at least five days before you will be absent. Please submit this 
form by  email with the subject heading: “YOUR NAME: Requesting Religious Accommodation.”  
  
VI. CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENT  
 
Inclusive Community  
UIC values diversity and inclusion. Regardless of age, disability, ethnicity, race, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, geographic background, religion, political ideology, language, or culture, we expect all members of this class to contribute to a respectful, welcoming, and inclusive environment for every other member of our class. If aspects of this course result in barriers to your inclusion,  engagement, accurate assessment, or achievement, 
please notify me as soon as possible.  
 
Name and Pronoun Use  
 
   
 
13 
  If your name does not match the name on my class roster, please let me know as soon as 
possible. My pronouns are [she/her; he/him; they/them] . I welcome your pronouns if you would 
like to share them with me. For more information about pronouns, see this page: https://www.mypronouns.org/what -and-why
.  
 
Community Agreement/Classroom Conduct Policy  
● Be present by turning off cell phones and removing yourself from other distractions.  
● Be respectful of the learning space and community. For example, no side conversations or unnecessary disruptions.  
● Use preferred names and gender pronouns.  
● Assume goodwill in all interactions, even in disagreement.  
● Facilitate dialogue an d value the free and safe exchange of ideas.  
● Try not to make assumptions, have an open mind, seek to understand, and not judge.  
● Approach discussion, challenges, and different perspectives as an opportunity to “think out loud,” learn something new, and unde rstand the concepts or experiences that guide other 
people’s thinking.  
● Debate the concepts, not the person.  
● Be gracious and open to change when your ideas, arguments, or positions do not work or are proven wrong.  
● Be willing to work together and share helpf ul study strategies.  
● Be mindful of one another’s privacy, and do not invite outsiders into our classroom.  
 
Content Notices and Trigger Warnings  
Our classroom provides an open space for a critical and civil exchange of ideas, inclusive of a 
variety of persp ectives and positions. Some readings and other content may expose you to 
ideas, subjects, or views that may challenge you, cause you discomfort, or recall past negative experiences or traumas. I intend to discuss all subjects with dignity and humanity, as well as with rigor and respect for scholarly inquiry. If you would like me to be aware of a specific topic of concern, please email or visit my Student Drop -In Hours.  
 
VII. RESOURCES: Academic Success, Wellness, and Safety  
 
We all need the help and the support of our UIC community. Please visit my drop -in hours  for 
course consultation and other academic or research topics. For additional assistance, please contact your assigned college advisor and visit the support services a vailable to all UIC students.  
 
Academic Success  
● UIC Tutoring Resources  
● College of Engineering tutoring program  
● Equity and Inclusion in Engineering Program  
● UIC Library  and UIC Library Research Guides . 
● Offices  supporting the UIC Undergraduate Experience and Academ ic Programs.  
● Student Guide for Information Technology  
 
   
 
14 
 ● First -at-LAS  Academic Success Program, focusing on LAS first -generation students.  
 
Wellness 
● Counseling Services : You may seek free and confidential services from the Counseling 
Center at https://counseling.uic.edu/ .  
● Access U&I Care Program  for assistance with personal hardships.  
● Campus Advocacy Network : Under Title IX, you have the right to an education that is 
free from any form of gender -based violence or discrimination. To make a report, email 
TitleIX@uic.edu . For more information or confidential victim services and advocacy, visit 
UIC’s Campus Advocacy Network at http://can.uic.edu/ . 
Safety  
● UIC Safe App —PLEASE DOWNLOAD FOR YOUR SAFETY!  
● UIC Safety Tips and Resources  
● Night Ride  
● Emergency Communications : By dialing 5 -5555 from a campus phone, you can summon 
the Police or Fire for any on -campus emergency. You may also set up the complete 
number, (3 12) 355- 5555, on speed dial on your cell phone.  
 

===================[Syllabus End]===================
Please examine the attached course syllabus carefully and provide detailed answers to the research questions (RQ) listed below. Each question focuses on specific aspects of "computing systems" tailored for AI/ML scalability. We are looking for specific issues and topics related to compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, code optimization, programming model for AI/ML covered in the syllabus. Programming with Python or jupyter does not count as computing system topics.

RQ 1. Course Content and Frequency:
1.1 How frequently are topics explicitly related to "computing system" specialized for ML/AI discussed in the course? 
The topics are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in likert scale: 
Frequent (4): At least one dedicated lecture discussed the topics.
Intermittent (3): The topics are discussed occasionally. 
Infrequent (2): The topics are rarely mentioned.
Never mentioned (1): The topics are never mentioned.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 2. Definition and Understanding:
2.1 How are the impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML explicitly defined and explained in undergraduate curricula? 
The definition and explanation should include concepts of 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): Provide detailed definition and explanation.
Inadequate (2): Many of the topics missed significant discussion in lectures or in assignments.
Undefined (1): The topics are mostly undefined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
2.2 Do courses provide a comprehensive and explicit definition of impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML?
The definition and explanation should include concepts such as 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer by providing the list of above topics (1 to 9) discussed in the course. Make it short and direct. Limit in 100 words. Do not include topics unrelated to "computing systems" like general ML/AI algorithms.

RQ 3. Requirement Specification:
3.1 How are computational performance and capability requirements for hardware and software systems running scalable AI/ML, explicitly specified and discussed in undergraduate courses?
Topics include 1) Computational Power (CPU, GPU, TPU, Edge AI chips), Memory and Storage, Network for scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) Distributed Computing Frameworks such as TensorFlow's Distributed Strategy, PyTorch's Distributed Data Parallel (DDP), and Horovod 3)  Optimization Techniques such as Efficient Algorithm, Quantization, Prunning 4) Programming Models and Abstractions such as High-Level Libraries (Tensorflow, PyTorch, Keras)
Answer in Likert scale: 
Quantitatively (3): The lectures or assignments provide numerical values for computational performance and capability requirements such as latency, throughput, resource utilization etc.
Qualitatively (2): The lectures used descriptive terms.
No guidelines (1): The Lecture provide no guidelines.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
3.2 How did the discussion of “computing system” requirements rank against the discussion of general AI/ML topics?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Equally discussed with other AI/ML topics (3)
“computing system” requirements is a sub topic (2) 
“computing system” requirements were never discussed (1) 
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 4. Influence and Importance:
4.1 How is the importance of various “computing system” factors of designing and maintaining scalable AI/ML emphasized in the course?
The factors are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training and inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Holistic (2): The course took into account of many of the above factors.
System (1): The course viewed the factors as low level system issue, relegating responsibility to correct choice of hardware, programming model and AI/ML framework.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.

RQ 5. Case Studies and Real-World Applications:
5.1 Are real-world case studies involving hardware and software systems for AI/ML, with a focus on scalable model training, inference, and serving explicitly included in the curriculum?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Major (2): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was the major concerns of the case studies.
Minor (1): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was not a major concern of the case studies.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 6. Awareness and Integration of AI-Specific Engineering Practices:
6.1 Do the courses discuss contributions and best practices from AI/ML system engineering communities, specifically in areas such as compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, and code optimization?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The courses thoroughly cover contributions from AI/ML system engineering communities and best practices in detail by depicting from state of art.
Inadequate (2): The courses mention the topic but do not cover it in sufficient depth or detail.
Undefined (1): The coverage of this topic in the courses is unclear or not well-defined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 7. Projects and Practical Implementation:
7.1 To what extent do the assignments in the course provide hands-on experience with designing, building, and maintaining both scalable hardware and software systems for AI/ML, specifically focusing on compiler optimization, optimizing runtime systems, hardware acceleration, or code optimization for AI/ML?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The assignments thoroughly cover these areas and provide extensive hands-on experience.
Inadequate (2): The assignments cover these areas minimally and do not provide sufficient hands-on experience.
None (1): The assignments do not cover these areas or provide relevant hands-on experience.
Could not be evaluated (0): Insufficient information or exposure to the assignments on the syllabus to provide an evaluation.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
