==================[Syllabus Start]==================
CS 583 - Fall 2020
Data Mining and Text Mining
Taught Online Asynchronously 
Using 
Blackboard
 and 
Zoom
Course Objective
This course has three objectives. First, to provide students with a sound basis in data mining tasks and techniques. Second, to ensure that students
are able to read, and critically evaluate data mining research papers. Third, to ensue that students are able to implement and to use some of the
important data mining and text mining algorithms.
Think and Ask!
 If you have questions about any topic or assignment, DO ASK me, TA or 
your classmates for help, I am here to make the course
understood. DO NOT delay your questions. There is no such thing as a 
stupid question. The only obstacle to learning is laziness.
Online Platforms
We will mainly use 
Blackboard
 and 
Zoom
 for teaching and learning. Please get yourself familarized with the systems.
General Information
Instructor: Bing Liu
Email: 
Bing Liu
Teaching Assistant (TA)
Sections 1 and 2: Sepideh
Esmaeilpour
Email: sesmae2@uic.edu
Section 1
Course Call Number: 30286
Lecture time slots: 12:30 - 1:45pm 
Tue
& Thu
Instructor office hours: 10:00am-
11:30am Tue
TA office hour: 4:00pm-5:00pm Thu
Office hours will be conducted on 
Zoom
Section 2
Course Call Number: 45283
Lecture time slots: 2:00pm - 3:15pm 
Tue
& Thu
Instructor office hours: 10:00am-11:30am
Tue
TA office hour: 4:00pm-5:00pm Thu
Office hours will be conducted on 
Zoom
Grading
Quizzes: 30%
No Midterm. It is replaced by
(40%) Assignments
No Final Exam: It is replaced by
(15%) Programming assignments
(15%) A small text mining research project
Assignments and the research project are done in groups of 2. Discussions with 
other students are allowed, but each group has to write your
own code.
Grading: live demo + code submission
MOSS
: Sharing code with your classmates is not acceptable!!! All programs will be screened using the Moss (Measure of Software
Similarity.) system.
Prerequisites
Knowledge of probability and algorithms
Any program language for projects
Teaching materials
Required Textbook:
Web data 
Mining
 - Exploring Hyperlinks, Contents and Usage Data
, By Bing Liu, Second Edition, Springer, July 2011, ISBN 978-
3-642-19459-7
References
Data mining: Concepts and Techniques, by Jiawei Han and Micheline Kamber, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, ISBN 1-55860-489-
8.
Introduction to Data Mining, by Pang-Ning Tan, Michael Steinbach, and Vipin Kumar, Pearson/Addison Wesley, ISBN 0-321-
32136-7.
Data Miining. by Charu Aggarwal, Springer, 2015. ISBN 978-3-319-14142-8
Machine Learning, by Tom M. Mitchell, McGraw-Hill, ISBN 0-07-042807-7
Principles of Data Mining, by David Hand, Heikki Mannila, Padhraic Smyth, The MIT Press, ISBN 0-262-08290-X.
Lifelong machine learning
, by Zhiyuan Chen and Bing Liu, Morgan & Claypool Publishers, November 2016.
Sentiment Analysis: Mining Opinions, Sentiments, and Emotions
, by Bing Liu, Cambridge University Press, 2015.
Data mining resource site: 
KDnuggets Directory
Topics (subject to change; the reading list follows each chapter title)
1
. 
Introduction
2
. 
Data pre-processing
Data cleaning
Data transformation
Data reduction
Discretization
3
. 
Association rules and sequential patterns
 (Sections 2.1 - 2.7)
Basic concepts
Apriori Algorithm
Mining association rules with multiple minimum supports
Mining class association rules
Sequetial pattern mining
Summary
4
. 
Supervised learning (Classification)
 (Chapter 3)
Basic concepts
Decision trees
Classifier evaluation
Rule induction
Classification based on association rules
Naive-Bayesian learning
Naive-Bayesian learning for text classification
Support vector machines
K-nearest neighbor
Bagging and boosting
Summary
5
. 
Unsupervised learning (Clustering)
 (Chapter 4)
Basic concepts
K-means algorithm
Representation of clusters
Hierarchical clustering
Distance functions
Data standardization
Handling mixed attributes
Which clustering algorithm to use?
Cluster evaluation
Discovering holes and data regions
Summary
6
. 
Information retrieval and Web search
 (Sections 6.1 - 6.6, and 6.8)
Basic text processing and representation
Cosine similarity
Relevance feedback and Rocchio algorithm
7
. 
Semi-supervised learning 
(Sections 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.2.1 - 5.2.4)
LU learning: Learning from labeled and unlabeled examples
Learning from labeled and unlabeled examples using EM
Learning from labeled and unlabeled examples using co-training
PU learning: Learning from positive and unlabeled examples
8
. 
Social network analysis
 (Sections 7.1 - 7.4)
Centrality and prestige
Citation analysis: co-citation and bibliographic coupling
The PageRank algoithm (of Google)
The HITS algorithm: authorities and hubs
Mining communities on the Web
9
. 
Sentiment analysis and opinion mining 
(Sections 11.1 - 11.6; check out my 
two books
)
Opinion mining problem
Document-level Sentiment classification
Sentence-level subjectivity and sentiment classification
Aspect-level sentiment analysis
Mining comparative opinions
Opinion lexicon generation
10
. 
Recommender systems and collaborative filtering
 (Section 12.4)
Content-based recommendation
Collaborative filtering based recommendation
K-nearest neighbor
Association rules
Matrix factorization
11
. 
Lifelong and continual learning
Introduction to lifelong learning?
Open-world learning
ON-the-job learning
Lifelong and continual learning chatbots
Rules and Policies
Statute of limitations
: No grading questions or complaints, no matter how justified, will be listened to one week after the item in question
has been returned.
Cheating
: Cheating will not be tolerated. All work you submitted must be entirely your own. Any suspicious similarities between students'
work (this includes, exams and program) will be recorded and brought to the attention of the Dean. The MINIMUM penalty for any student
found cheating will be to receive a 0 for the item in question, and dropping your final course grade one letter. The MAXIMUM penalty will
be expulsion from the University.
Late submission
: Late submission of assignment or quiz will not be accepted unless it is due to some extraordinary circumstances.
UIC Conunseling Center
We value your mental health and emotional wellness as part of the UIC student experience. The UIC Counseling Center offers an array of services
to provide additional support throughout your time at UIC, including workshops, peer support groups, counseling, self-help tools, and initial
consultations to speak to a mental health counselor about your concerns. Please visit the Counseling Center website for more information
(https://counseling.uic.edu/). Further, if you think emotional concerns may be impacting your academic success, please contact your faculty and
academic advisers to create a plan to stay on track. 
My 
Home Page
By Bing Liu, Aug 15, 2020

===================[Syllabus End]===================
Please examine the attached course syllabus carefully and provide detailed answers to the research questions (RQ) listed below. Each question focuses on specific aspects of "computing systems" tailored for AI/ML scalability. We are looking for specific issues and topics related to compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, code optimization, programming model for AI/ML covered in the syllabus. Programming with Python or jupyter does not count as computing system topics.

RQ 1. Course Content and Frequency:
1.1 How frequently are topics explicitly related to "computing system" specialized for ML/AI discussed in the course? 
The topics are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in likert scale: 
Frequent (4): At least one dedicated lecture discussed the topics.
Intermittent (3): The topics are discussed occasionally. 
Infrequent (2): The topics are rarely mentioned.
Never mentioned (1): The topics are never mentioned.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 2. Definition and Understanding:
2.1 How are the impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML explicitly defined and explained in undergraduate curricula? 
The definition and explanation should include concepts of 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): Provide detailed definition and explanation.
Inadequate (2): Many of the topics missed significant discussion in lectures or in assignments.
Undefined (1): The topics are mostly undefined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
2.2 Do courses provide a comprehensive and explicit definition of impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML?
The definition and explanation should include concepts such as 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer by providing the list of above topics (1 to 9) discussed in the course. Make it short and direct. Limit in 100 words. Do not include topics unrelated to "computing systems" like general ML/AI algorithms.

RQ 3. Requirement Specification:
3.1 How are computational performance and capability requirements for hardware and software systems running scalable AI/ML, explicitly specified and discussed in undergraduate courses?
Topics include 1) Computational Power (CPU, GPU, TPU, Edge AI chips), Memory and Storage, Network for scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) Distributed Computing Frameworks such as TensorFlow's Distributed Strategy, PyTorch's Distributed Data Parallel (DDP), and Horovod 3)  Optimization Techniques such as Efficient Algorithm, Quantization, Prunning 4) Programming Models and Abstractions such as High-Level Libraries (Tensorflow, PyTorch, Keras)
Answer in Likert scale: 
Quantitatively (3): The lectures or assignments provide numerical values for computational performance and capability requirements such as latency, throughput, resource utilization etc.
Qualitatively (2): The lectures used descriptive terms.
No guidelines (1): The Lecture provide no guidelines.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
3.2 How did the discussion of “computing system” requirements rank against the discussion of general AI/ML topics?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Equally discussed with other AI/ML topics (3)
“computing system” requirements is a sub topic (2) 
“computing system” requirements were never discussed (1) 
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 4. Influence and Importance:
4.1 How is the importance of various “computing system” factors of designing and maintaining scalable AI/ML emphasized in the course?
The factors are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training and inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Holistic (2): The course took into account of many of the above factors.
System (1): The course viewed the factors as low level system issue, relegating responsibility to correct choice of hardware, programming model and AI/ML framework.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.

RQ 5. Case Studies and Real-World Applications:
5.1 Are real-world case studies involving hardware and software systems for AI/ML, with a focus on scalable model training, inference, and serving explicitly included in the curriculum?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Major (2): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was the major concerns of the case studies.
Minor (1): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was not a major concern of the case studies.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 6. Awareness and Integration of AI-Specific Engineering Practices:
6.1 Do the courses discuss contributions and best practices from AI/ML system engineering communities, specifically in areas such as compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, and code optimization?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The courses thoroughly cover contributions from AI/ML system engineering communities and best practices in detail by depicting from state of art.
Inadequate (2): The courses mention the topic but do not cover it in sufficient depth or detail.
Undefined (1): The coverage of this topic in the courses is unclear or not well-defined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 7. Projects and Practical Implementation:
7.1 To what extent do the assignments in the course provide hands-on experience with designing, building, and maintaining both scalable hardware and software systems for AI/ML, specifically focusing on compiler optimization, optimizing runtime systems, hardware acceleration, or code optimization for AI/ML?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The assignments thoroughly cover these areas and provide extensive hands-on experience.
Inadequate (2): The assignments cover these areas minimally and do not provide sufficient hands-on experience.
None (1): The assignments do not cover these areas or provide relevant hands-on experience.
Could not be evaluated (0): Insufficient information or exposure to the assignments on the syllabus to provide an evaluation.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
