==================[Syllabus Start]==================
Neural Networks and Deep Learning (CSCI 5922)
University of Colorado Boulder, Computer Science Department
Course Lectures: Mondays and Wednesdays, 3:05-4:20pm MT
Course Mode: Synchronously remote, which means classes will be held virtually during
the listed days and times. Classes will also be recorded for students who can only join asyn-
chronously.
Instructor: Danna (pronounced similar to \Donna") Gurari (rhymes with Ferrari)
Instructor Nickname: for simplicity, you can call me Dr. G.
Pronouns: she/her
Email: danna.gurari@colorado.edu
Teaching Assistant: Samreen Anjum
Pronouns: she/her
Email: samreen.anjum@colorado.edu
Teaching Assistant: Lucas Hayne
Pronouns: he/him
Email: lucas.hayne@colorado.edu
Ways to Contact Us:
Questions for Instructor: She will stay after each class meeting to answer questions.
Piazza: We encourage you to post questions to Piazza. This can benet other stu-
dents, who may have similar questions to see the answers posted on Piazza, and it also
allows peers to answer your questions. You can post questions to Piazza from Canvas.
Oce Hours: The TAs will host oce hours every day of the week for 1 hour. Oce
hours will be held on Mondays at 11am MT, Tuesdays at 2pm MT, Wednesdays at
11am MT, Thursdays at 5pm MT, and Fridays at 2:30pm MT. To attend, please enter
your name on the oce hours spreadsheet shared on Canvas and then join the video
meeting link shared on Canvas.
Regrade requests: All requests must be emailed to the TA, Samreen Anjum, within
2 weeks of receiving the grade to be considered.
Appointments: For any other matters, email the TA, Samreen Anjum, to make an
appointment or solicit an answer. Please note that at least 24 hours notice will typically
be needed before a TA will be able to meet. The TAs will involve the instructor for
any items they are unable to address.
1
Course Overview
Summary
This course will cover machine learning approaches that are based on neural networks, also
referred to as `deep learning', and how these approaches are applied to solve articial in-
telligence problems. We will begin with the history of deep learning, examine the theory
behind a range of deep learning algorithms, and practice applying deep learning algorithms
to, for example, visual data (computer vision), textual data (natural language processing),
and their combination. The course homework will consist of problem sets and lab assign-
ments for the rst part of the semester followed by a research project the second part of the
semester. Readings will come both from textbooks and research articles.
Objectives
By the end of the course, the goals are for students to:
1. Understand the key concepts for designing deep learning models, a critical precursor
to eective collaborations in industry or academia. Towards this aim, students will:
Characterize the fundamental architectures used in designing neural networks
Identify techniques used to train and evaluate deep learning algorithms
Recognize strengths and weaknesses of dierent neural network architectures and
training approaches
2. Apply deep learning models to perform various articial intelligence tasks. Towards
this aim, students will:
Experiment with deep learning libraries, including scikit-learn and Keras
Evaluate deep learning algorithms for tasks in various application domains, in-
cluding for analyzing images and text
3. Conduct and communicate a novel project. Towards this aim, students will:
Propose a novel project idea (this will be an iterative process)
Design and execute experiments to support the proposed idea
Create a presentation about the project
Write a report about the project
Prerequisites
Programming competency as well as experience with probability/statistics and linear algebra.
Website
https://www.cs.colorado.edu/ DrG/Courses/NeuralNetworksAndDeepLearning/
Readings
Readings will be assigned in the rst part of the course. This will supplement the lectures
2
by providing a more detailed and formal coverage of many of the topics.
Problem Sets
Three problem sets will be assigned in the rst part of the course. Each assignment de-
scription will be posted in Canvas before the due date. These assignments will oer deeper
examination of the foundational concepts in deep learning. You will be given one week to
complete each assignment. Due to the large number of students in the course, we expect
graded assignments will be returned 1 week after submission.
Lab Assignments
Four lab assignments will be assigned in the rst part of the course. Each assignment de-
scription will be posted in Canvas before the due date. These lab assignments will give
students hands-on practice in developing deep learning models. You will be given one and a
half weeks to complete each assignment. Due to the large number of students in the course,
we expect graded assignments will be returned 1 week after submission.
Final Project
The second part of the course will center on strengthening students' skills in conducting
and communicating original work by applying their deep learning knowledge in a novel way.
It will consist of four milestones to help students dene/rene the scope so that ultimate
success is possible: a proposal, outline, presentation, and nal report. Details about each
project milestone will be posted on the course website prior to each milestone's deadline.
Resources
Assigned readings will be posted on the course website for each class meeting. The primary
texts will be \Deep Learning" by Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville and
\Deep Learning for NLP and Speech Recognition" by Uday Kamath, John Liu, and James
Whitaker. Both texts are available online for free. Finally, we will also read publications
from conference proceedings, all of which are available online for free.
3
Tentative Schedule
Week Topic(s)
1 Introduction, Articial neurons
2 Feedforward neural networks (NN), NN training
3 NN training
4 Convolutional neural networks (CNN), Introduction to CV
5 Training CNN algorithms
6 Regularization, Pretrained CNN features, Fine-tuning
7 Object detection, Semantic segmentation, Recurrent neural networks
8 Introduction to natural language proecssing, Neural word embeddings, Attention
9 Transformers
10 Multimodal NN (vision + language)
11 Multimodal NN, Self-supervised learning, GANs
12 Few/zero-shot learning, Responsible/ethical learning
13 Deep learning in industry (guest speakers)
14 Model compression, Ecient learning
15 NNs for speech processing & reinforcement learning
16 NN for information retrieval & course summary
4
Grading
Final course scores will be calculated as follows:
% of Final Class Grade
Problem Sets 25%
Lab Assignments 35%
Final Project 40%
Final course scores represent the following grades (scores are rounded to the nearest integer):
Grade % of Final Class Grade
A 94-100%
A- 90-93%
B+ 87-89%
B 84-86%
B- 80-83%
C+ 77-79%
C 74-76%
Late Policy
Late submissions will be penalized 1% of the grade per hour up to 2 hours. After 2 hours,
no credit will be given.
Regrade Requests
Students may submit a regrade request within 2 weeks of receiving an assignment grade,
when it is believed a mistake was made. These requests should be submitted to the TA.
After the allotted time frame, regrade requests will not be considered.
Policies
Statement on Learning Success
Your success in this course is important to me. We will all need accommodations because
we all learn dierently. If there are aspects of this course that prevent you from learning
or exclude you, please let me know as soon as possible. Together we'll develop strategies to
meet both your needs and the requirements of the course.
Classroom Behavior
Both students and faculty are responsible for maintaining an appropriate learning environ-
ment in all instructional settings, whether in person, remote or online. Those who fail to
adhere to such behavioral standards may be subject to discipline. Professional courtesy
and sensitivity are especially important with respect to individuals and topics dealing with
race, color, national origin, sex, pregnancy, age, disability, creed, religion, sexual orientation,
5
gender identity, gender expression, veteran status, political aliation or political philoso-
phy. For more information, see the policies on classroom behavior and the Student Conduct
Conict Resolution policies.
Honor Code
All students enrolled in a University of Colorado Boulder course are responsible for knowing
and adhering to the Honor Code academic integrity policy. Violations of the Honor Code
may include, but are not limited to: plagiarism, cheating, fabrication, lying, bribery, threat,
unauthorized access to academic materials, clicker fraud, submitting the same or similar
work in more than one course without permission from all course instructors involved, and
aiding academic dishonesty. All incidents of academic misconduct will be reported to the
Honor Code (honor@colorado.edu; 303-492-5550). Students found responsible for violating
the academic integrity policy will be subject to nonacademic sanctions from the Honor Code
as well as academic sanctions from the faculty member. Additional information regarding
the Honor Code academic integrity policy can be found on the Honor Code website.
Excused Absences
A student will be given an opportunity to complete any work missed due to absences in
observance of a religious holy day or military service. Campus policy regarding religious
observances requires that faculty make every eort to deal reasonably and fairly with all
students who, because of religious obligations, have conicts with scheduled exams, assign-
ments or required attendance. The student must notify me at least two weeks in advance of
the absence. The student will not be penalized for excused absences, but must complete the
missed material within a reasonable time after the excused absence. Please see the campus
policy regarding religious observances for full details.
University Resources for Students
There are a range of resources available on campus to support you and your academic success:
Coping with Stress and Personal Hardships
All of us benet from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are
many helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the University
experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later
is often helpful. If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, dicult
life events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, please consider taking advantage of
the support available to you from the Counseling and Psychiatric Services (CAPS).
Accommodations for Disability
If you qualify for accommodations because of a disability, please submit your accom-
modation letter from Disability Services to your faculty member in a timely manner
so that your needs can be addressed. Disability Services determines accommodations
based on documented disabilities in the academic environment. Information on request-
ing accommodations is located on the Disability Services website. Contact Disability
Services at 303-492-8671 or dsinfo@colorado.edu for further assistance. If you have
a temporary medical condition, see Temporary Medical Conditions on the Disability
Services website.
6
Writing Center
All students are encouraged to consult the University Writing Center for support.
Personal Pronouns
CU Boulder recognizes that students' legal information doesn't always align with how they
identify. Students may update their preferred names and pronouns via the student portal;
those preferred names and pronouns are listed on instructors' class rosters. In the absence
of such updates, the name that appears on the class roster is the student's legal name.
Sexual Misconduct, Discrimination, Harassment and/or Related Retaliation
The University of Colorado Boulder (CU Boulder) is committed to fostering an inclusive and
welcoming learning, working, and living environment. CU Boulder will not tolerate acts of
sexual misconduct (harassment, exploitation, and assault), intimate partner violence (dating
or domestic violence), stalking, or protected-class discrimination or harassment by or against
members of our community. Individuals who believe they have been subject to misconduct
or retaliatory actions for reporting a concern should contact the Oce of Institutional Eq-
uity and Compliance (OIEC) at 303-492-2127 or email cureport@colorado.edu. Information
about OIEC, university policies, reporting options, and the campus resources can be found
on the OIEC website.
Please know that faculty and graduate instructors have a responsibility to inform OIEC
when they are made aware of incidents of sexual misconduct, dating and domestic violence,
stalking, discrimination, harassment and/or related retaliation, to ensure that individuals
impacted receive information about their rights, support resources, and reporting options. To
learn more about reporting and support options for a variety of concerns, visit Dont Ignore It.
Sharing of Course Materials is Prohibited
Class recordings are reserved only for students in this class for educational purposes. The
recordings should not be shared outside the class in any form. Violation of this restriction
by a student could lead to Student Misconduct proceedings.
Requirements for COVID-19
As a matter of public health and safety due to the pandemic, all members of the CU Boul-
der community and all visitors to campus must follow university, department and building
requirements and all public health orders in place to reduce the risk of spreading infectious
disease. Students who fail to adhere to these requirements will be asked to leave class, and
students who do not leave class when asked or who refuse to comply with these requirements
will be referred to Student Conduct and Conict Resolution. For more information, see the
policy on classroom behavior and the Student Code of Conduct. If you require accommoda-
tion because a disability prevents you from fullling these safety measures, please follow the
steps in the Accommodation for Disabilities statement on this syllabus.
CU Boulder currently requires masks in classrooms and laboratories regardless of vaccina-
tion status. This requirement is a precaution to supplement CU Boulders COVID-19 vaccine
requirement. Exemptions include individuals who cannot medically tolerate a face covering,
as well as those who are hearing-impaired or otherwise disabled or who are communicating
with someone who is hearing-impaired or otherwise disabled and where the ability to see
7
the mouth is essential to communication. If you qualify for a mask-related accommodation,
please follow the steps in the Accommodation for Disabilities statement on this syllabus. In
addition, vaccinated instructional faculty who are engaged in an indoor instructional activity
and are separated by at least 6 feet from the nearest person are exempt from wearing masks
if they so choose.
8

===================[Syllabus End]===================
Please examine the attached course syllabus carefully and provide detailed answers to the research questions (RQ) listed below. Each question focuses on specific aspects of "computing systems" tailored for AI/ML scalability. We are looking for specific issues and topics related to compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, code optimization, programming model for AI/ML covered in the syllabus. Programming with Python or jupyter does not count as computing system topics.

RQ 1. Course Content and Frequency:
1.1 How frequently are topics explicitly related to "computing system" specialized for ML/AI discussed in the course? 
The topics are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in likert scale: 
Frequent (4): At least one dedicated lecture discussed the topics.
Intermittent (3): The topics are discussed occasionally. 
Infrequent (2): The topics are rarely mentioned.
Never mentioned (1): The topics are never mentioned.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 2. Definition and Understanding:
2.1 How are the impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML explicitly defined and explained in undergraduate curricula? 
The definition and explanation should include concepts of 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): Provide detailed definition and explanation.
Inadequate (2): Many of the topics missed significant discussion in lectures or in assignments.
Undefined (1): The topics are mostly undefined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
2.2 Do courses provide a comprehensive and explicit definition of impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML?
The definition and explanation should include concepts such as 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer by providing the list of above topics (1 to 9) discussed in the course. Make it short and direct. Limit in 100 words. Do not include topics unrelated to "computing systems" like general ML/AI algorithms.

RQ 3. Requirement Specification:
3.1 How are computational performance and capability requirements for hardware and software systems running scalable AI/ML, explicitly specified and discussed in undergraduate courses?
Topics include 1) Computational Power (CPU, GPU, TPU, Edge AI chips), Memory and Storage, Network for scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) Distributed Computing Frameworks such as TensorFlow's Distributed Strategy, PyTorch's Distributed Data Parallel (DDP), and Horovod 3)  Optimization Techniques such as Efficient Algorithm, Quantization, Prunning 4) Programming Models and Abstractions such as High-Level Libraries (Tensorflow, PyTorch, Keras)
Answer in Likert scale: 
Quantitatively (3): The lectures or assignments provide numerical values for computational performance and capability requirements such as latency, throughput, resource utilization etc.
Qualitatively (2): The lectures used descriptive terms.
No guidelines (1): The Lecture provide no guidelines.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
3.2 How did the discussion of “computing system” requirements rank against the discussion of general AI/ML topics?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Equally discussed with other AI/ML topics (3)
“computing system” requirements is a sub topic (2) 
“computing system” requirements were never discussed (1) 
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 4. Influence and Importance:
4.1 How is the importance of various “computing system” factors of designing and maintaining scalable AI/ML emphasized in the course?
The factors are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training and inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Holistic (2): The course took into account of many of the above factors.
System (1): The course viewed the factors as low level system issue, relegating responsibility to correct choice of hardware, programming model and AI/ML framework.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.

RQ 5. Case Studies and Real-World Applications:
5.1 Are real-world case studies involving hardware and software systems for AI/ML, with a focus on scalable model training, inference, and serving explicitly included in the curriculum?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Major (2): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was the major concerns of the case studies.
Minor (1): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was not a major concern of the case studies.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 6. Awareness and Integration of AI-Specific Engineering Practices:
6.1 Do the courses discuss contributions and best practices from AI/ML system engineering communities, specifically in areas such as compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, and code optimization?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The courses thoroughly cover contributions from AI/ML system engineering communities and best practices in detail by depicting from state of art.
Inadequate (2): The courses mention the topic but do not cover it in sufficient depth or detail.
Undefined (1): The coverage of this topic in the courses is unclear or not well-defined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 7. Projects and Practical Implementation:
7.1 To what extent do the assignments in the course provide hands-on experience with designing, building, and maintaining both scalable hardware and software systems for AI/ML, specifically focusing on compiler optimization, optimizing runtime systems, hardware acceleration, or code optimization for AI/ML?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The assignments thoroughly cover these areas and provide extensive hands-on experience.
Inadequate (2): The assignments cover these areas minimally and do not provide sufficient hands-on experience.
None (1): The assignments do not cover these areas or provide relevant hands-on experience.
Could not be evaluated (0): Insufficient information or exposure to the assignments on the syllabus to provide an evaluation.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
