==================[Syllabus Start]==================
CSE521
DATA MINING
Spring 2023
Course Webpage:
http://www3.cs.stonybrook.edu /˜ cse521
Professor Anita Wasilewska
Meets Tuesday, Thursday 11:30 am - 12:50 pm
Place : Melville Library, Room E4320
Professor Anita Wasilewska
e-mail anita@cs.stonybrook.edu
Oce phone (631) 632 8458
Oce location: New Computer Science Department, o ce 208
Professor O ce Hours
Tuesday, Thursday 5:00 pm - 6:00 pm and by appointment
Place New Comp. Science Building, Room 208, telephone: 2-8458
In person in the O ce and Zoom on demand and in a case of snow emergency
I also read emails DAILY and respond within a day or two to students e-mails
TAs Oce Hours will be posted and updated on BLACKBOARD and mailed to all students
TA Oce Location Room 2126 Old CS Building
In person in the TAs O ce and Zoom on demand and in a case of snow emergency
TAs areresponsible for tests and assignments grading, Professor writes the tests, assignments and solutions and
sets grading criteria and discusses them with TAs
Textbook
DATA MINING Concepts and Techniques
Jiawei Han, Micheline Kamber, and ian Pei Morgan Kaufman Publishers, 2011
Second or Third Edition
Book Slides for Third Edition http :==han j :cs:illinois :edu=bk3=bk3slidesindex :htm
1
Course Description
Data Mining (DM), called also Knowledge Discovery in Databases (KDD) is a multidisciplinary ﬁeld. It brings
together research and ideas from database technology, machine learning, neural networks, statistics, pattern
recognition, knowledge based systems, information retrieval, high-performance computing, and data visu-
alization. Its main focus is the automated extraction of patterns representing knowledge implicitly stored in
large databases, data warehouses, and other massive information repositories.
The course will closely follow the book and is designed to give a broad, yet in-depth overview of the Data
Mining ﬁeld and examine the most recognized techniques in a more rigorous detail. We also will explore the
newest trends and developments of the ﬁeld. In particular we will cover all or part of the following subjects
Grading General Principles
1. TEST 1 andTEST 2 are IN CLASS tests
2.PROJECT, FINAL REPORT PRESENTATION and FINAL REPORT PAPER are to be conducted in Teams of
4 - 5 students
3.All members of the Team receive the same grade
4. NONE of the grades will be curved
Teams Formation
Please email TA (to be speciﬁed later) names, IDs, and emails of your Team members denoting who is the
designated Team Leader . TA will assign a Team Number to each Team and email it to each Team Leader
to be used for future identiﬁcation.
Contact the TA if you do not have a team partner. He will help you to FORM a Team
Make-up Exams
Make-up exams will be given only in extenuating circumstances (e.g., doctor’s note stating that you were ill and
unﬁt to take the exam). Students who miss an exam for a valid reason must contact the instructor immediately
to take a make-up exam at the earliest possible time; speciﬁc arrangements will be made on a case-by-case
basis.
Course Structure
The course Lecture Slides are written by me, except when I say ”Book Slide” or give other credentials
We list here Chapters numbers from 2nd edition followed by Chapters numbers from 3rd edition put between
parenthesis
Part 1 Introduction; Data Preprocessing, Data Warehouse
Book chapters 1- 3 (1 - 4 ) and Lectures 1- 3
Part 2 Classiﬁcation
Decision Tree Induction and Neural Networks
Book chapter 6 (8- 9) and Lectures 4 - 11
TEST 1
2
Classiﬁcation Project Project Description is published at the course webpage
Part 3 Association Analysis, Apriori Algorithm
Book chapters 5, 6 (6, 9) and Lectures 12 - 14
Part 4 Other Classiﬁcation Models
Genetic Algorithms
Bayesian Classiﬁcation
Book chapter 6 (9) Lectures 15, 16
TEST 2
Part 5 Clustering, Statistical Prediction
Book chapter 7 (10, 11) and Lectures 17, 18
Part 6 Other DM Areas and Foundations of DM
Chapters 9 - 10 (13) and Lectures 19 - 23
We will also cover, if time allows, in some level of detail the following subjects
Types of Neural Networks, Protein Secondary Structure Prediction,
Descriptive Granularity - a Data Mining Model
Final Report Final Report Description is published at the course webpage. It consists of two parts:
Final Report PRESENTATION and Funal Report PAPER
Grading Components
During the semester students are responsible for the following (in order as listed).
1.Test1 (70pts)
3.Project (30pts)
3.Test 2 (70pts)
4.Final Report Presentation (20pts)
5.Final Reports Paper (10pts)
FINAL GRADE COPMUTATION
Attention: NONE of the grades will be curved
During the semester you can earn 200pts or more (in the case of extra points).
The % grade will be determine in the following way: # of earned points divided by 2 =% grade.
The % grade which is translated into letter grade as follows.
3
100 - 90 % is A range:
A (100-96%), A- (95- 90%),
89 - 80 % is B range:
B- (80 - 82%), B (83 -85%), B +(86 -89%),
79 - 70 % is C range:
C- (70- 72%), C (73-75%), C +(76-79%),
69 - 60 % is D range, and F is below 60%.
Preliminary Test Schedule
CHANGES WILL BE POSTED ON BLACKBOARD and course webpage
TEST 1 TUESDAY MARCH 7
Spring Break March 13 - 19
Project due Tuesday, March 27 - submit to Blackboard
TEST 2 THURSDAY APRIL 13
Final Report Presentation APRIL 18 - MAY 2
Final Report Paper] - due the last day of classes MAY 5 - submit to Blackboard
Course Contents
The course will follow the book very closely and in particular we will cover all or some of following chapters and
subjects. The order does not need to be sequential.
Chapters numbers below are from 2nd edition. Respective Chapters numbers in 3rd edition are listed in the
Course Structure section.
Chapter 1 Introduction. General overview: what is Data Mining, which data, what kinds of patterns can
be mined.
Chapter 2 Data preprocessing: data cleaning, data integration and transformation, data reduction, dis-
cretization and concept hierarchy generation.
Chapter 3 Data Warehouse and OLAP technology for Data Mining.
Chapter 5 Mining Association Rules in Large Databases. Transactional databases and Apriori Algorithm
Chapter 6 Classiﬁcation and prediction.
1.Decision Tree Induction ID3, C4.5).
2.Neural Networks
3.Bayesian Classiﬁcation
4.Classiﬁcation based on Concepts from Association rule mining
4
5.Genetic algorithms
6.Statistical Prediction
Chapter 7 Cluster Analysis. A Categorization of major Clustering methods
Chapter 8 Mining Sequential Patters in Biological Data
Chapter 10 Text Mining
Chapter 11 Foundations of Data Mining and also in
SPRINGER Encyclopedia of Complexity and Systems Science, 2009 Editors: Editor-in-chief: Meyers,
Robert A http: //www.springer.com /us/book/9780387758886
Make-up Exams Make-up exams will be given only in extenuating circumstances (e.g., doctor’s note stat-
ing that you were ill and unﬁt to take the exam). Students who miss an exam for a valid reason must
contact the instructor immediately to take a make-up exam at the earliest possible time; speciﬁc ar-
rangements will be made on a case-by-case basis.
Stony Brook University Syllabus Statement If you have a physical, psychological, medical, or learning
disability that may impact your course work, please contact Disability Support Services at (631) 632-
6748 or http: //http://studenta airs.stonybrook.edu /dss They will determine with you what accommo-
dations are necessary and appropriate. All information and documentation is conﬁdential.
Students who require assistance during emergency evacuation are encouraged to discuss their needs
with their professors and Disability Support Services. For procedures and information go to the fol-
lowing website:
http://www.sunysb.edu /ehs/ﬁre/disabilities.shtml
Student Accessibility Support Center Statement
If you have a physical, psychological, medical, or learning disability that may impact your course work,
please contact the Student Accessibility Support Center, 128 ECC Building, (631) 632-6748, or via
e-mail at: sasc@stonybrook.edu. They will determine with you what accommodations are necessary
and appropriate. All information and documentation is conﬁdential.
Academic Integrity Statement Each student must pursue his or her academic goals honestly and be per-
sonally accountable for all submitted work. Representing another person’s work as your own is always
wrong. Any suspected instance of academic dishonesty will be reported to the Academic Judiciary. For
more comprehensive information on academic integrity, including categories of academic dishonesty,
please refer to the academic judiciary website at http: //www.stonybrook.edu /uaa/academicjudiciary /
SASC Student Accessibility Support Center
If you have a physical, psychological, medical, or learning disability that may impact your course work,
please contact the Student Accessibility Support Center, Stony Brook Union Suite 107, (631) 632-6748,
or at sasc@stonybrook.edu
Critical Incident Management
Stony Brook University expects students to respect the rights, privileges, and property of other people.
Faculty are required to report to the O ce of University Community Standards any disruptive behavior
that interrupts their ability to teach, compromises the safety of the learning environment, or inhibits
students’ ability to learn. Faculty in the HSC Schools and the School of Medicine are required to follow
their school-speciﬁc procedures. Further information about most academic matters can be found in the
Undergraduate Bulletin, the Undergraduate Class Schedule, and the Faculty-Employee Handbook.
5

===================[Syllabus End]===================
Please examine the attached course syllabus carefully and provide detailed answers to the research questions (RQ) listed below. Each question focuses on specific aspects of "computing systems" tailored for AI/ML scalability. We are looking for specific issues and topics related to compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, code optimization, programming model for AI/ML covered in the syllabus. Programming with Python or jupyter does not count as computing system topics.

RQ 1. Course Content and Frequency:
1.1 How frequently are topics explicitly related to "computing system" specialized for ML/AI discussed in the course? 
The topics are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in likert scale: 
Frequent (4): At least one dedicated lecture discussed the topics.
Intermittent (3): The topics are discussed occasionally. 
Infrequent (2): The topics are rarely mentioned.
Never mentioned (1): The topics are never mentioned.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 2. Definition and Understanding:
2.1 How are the impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML explicitly defined and explained in undergraduate curricula? 
The definition and explanation should include concepts of 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): Provide detailed definition and explanation.
Inadequate (2): Many of the topics missed significant discussion in lectures or in assignments.
Undefined (1): The topics are mostly undefined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
2.2 Do courses provide a comprehensive and explicit definition of impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML?
The definition and explanation should include concepts such as 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer by providing the list of above topics (1 to 9) discussed in the course. Make it short and direct. Limit in 100 words. Do not include topics unrelated to "computing systems" like general ML/AI algorithms.

RQ 3. Requirement Specification:
3.1 How are computational performance and capability requirements for hardware and software systems running scalable AI/ML, explicitly specified and discussed in undergraduate courses?
Topics include 1) Computational Power (CPU, GPU, TPU, Edge AI chips), Memory and Storage, Network for scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) Distributed Computing Frameworks such as TensorFlow's Distributed Strategy, PyTorch's Distributed Data Parallel (DDP), and Horovod 3)  Optimization Techniques such as Efficient Algorithm, Quantization, Prunning 4) Programming Models and Abstractions such as High-Level Libraries (Tensorflow, PyTorch, Keras)
Answer in Likert scale: 
Quantitatively (3): The lectures or assignments provide numerical values for computational performance and capability requirements such as latency, throughput, resource utilization etc.
Qualitatively (2): The lectures used descriptive terms.
No guidelines (1): The Lecture provide no guidelines.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
3.2 How did the discussion of “computing system” requirements rank against the discussion of general AI/ML topics?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Equally discussed with other AI/ML topics (3)
“computing system” requirements is a sub topic (2) 
“computing system” requirements were never discussed (1) 
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 4. Influence and Importance:
4.1 How is the importance of various “computing system” factors of designing and maintaining scalable AI/ML emphasized in the course?
The factors are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training and inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Holistic (2): The course took into account of many of the above factors.
System (1): The course viewed the factors as low level system issue, relegating responsibility to correct choice of hardware, programming model and AI/ML framework.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.

RQ 5. Case Studies and Real-World Applications:
5.1 Are real-world case studies involving hardware and software systems for AI/ML, with a focus on scalable model training, inference, and serving explicitly included in the curriculum?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Major (2): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was the major concerns of the case studies.
Minor (1): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was not a major concern of the case studies.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 6. Awareness and Integration of AI-Specific Engineering Practices:
6.1 Do the courses discuss contributions and best practices from AI/ML system engineering communities, specifically in areas such as compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, and code optimization?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The courses thoroughly cover contributions from AI/ML system engineering communities and best practices in detail by depicting from state of art.
Inadequate (2): The courses mention the topic but do not cover it in sufficient depth or detail.
Undefined (1): The coverage of this topic in the courses is unclear or not well-defined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 7. Projects and Practical Implementation:
7.1 To what extent do the assignments in the course provide hands-on experience with designing, building, and maintaining both scalable hardware and software systems for AI/ML, specifically focusing on compiler optimization, optimizing runtime systems, hardware acceleration, or code optimization for AI/ML?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The assignments thoroughly cover these areas and provide extensive hands-on experience.
Inadequate (2): The assignments cover these areas minimally and do not provide sufficient hands-on experience.
None (1): The assignments do not cover these areas or provide relevant hands-on experience.
Could not be evaluated (0): Insufficient information or exposure to the assignments on the syllabus to provide an evaluation.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
