==================[Syllabus Start]==================
 
ITCS 6156/8156, DSBA 6156 : Applied Machine Learning  
Spring 202 2 
Siddharth Krishnan  
 
Contact Information:  
 
Email:    skrishnan  at uncc  dot edu 
Office:    Woodward Hall 403B  
Office Hours:   Tuesdays 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm via Zoom (check Canvas for details)  
 
TA:   TBA  
Email:   TBA  
Office Hours:  TBA  
 
Course Description:  
 
Prerequisite: ITCS 6150  & some programming experience, preferably in Python  or 
permission of the instructor.  
 
The era of Big Data has arrived. From healthcare to retail to manufacturing to e -commerce, 
big data is now pervasive.  Technological advances in data collection have resulted in 
massive datasets that demand methods for analytics & visualization . It is not a far stretch 
of the imagination to claim that most IT  professi onals today, to be successful, must have a 
working understanding of data science. Therefore , in this course we will introduce some 
of the fundamental concepts of data science/analytics that will catalyze the student’s skills 
in gleaning actionable insights  using techniques (taught in the course) from mining massive 
datasets, machine learning, and data visualization.  The class discusses how to apply some 
fundamental methods like decision trees, bayesian classifiers, SVMs, random forests, and 
some advanced te chniques like semi -supervised learning, neural networks, and deep 
learning on real -world datasets, including data preparation, model selection, and 
evaluation. We will learn a range of applications like social network analysis, natural 
language processing,  sports analytics, time -series analytics, and automated machine 
learning. Apart from applying models, we will also discuss software development tools 
and industry best practices relevant to productionizing machine learning models, 
particularly how to devel op scalable models that can be deployed on a cloud infrastructure. 
Our class will include guest lectures from data scientists from Bank of America and ESPN. 
Prior iterations of the class have resulted in successful IEEE research publications as well 
(read:  Extracting Cryptocurrency Price Movements From the Reddit Network 
Sentiment)  (Links to an external site.) . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives of the Course:  
 
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:  
 
o Tackle practical programming issues underlying storing, retrieving, accessing, and 
processing large datasets.  
o Implement machine learning methods and apply  them to large scale datasets.  
o Analyze real -world datasets to dev elop predictive and descriptive applications.  
 
 
 
 
Schedule of Topics, Exams & Presentations:  
 
We will  cover the following topics : (tentative ) 
• Matplotlib and Visualization  
• Data Preprocessing  
• Supervised Learning, Model Complexity, and Model Validation  
• Linear Models – Regression, Classification, SVMs  
• Trees, forests, and ensembles  
• Gradient descent and boosting  
• Calibration and imbalanced data  
• Model evaluation, model interpretation, and feature selection  
• Parameter tuning  and automatic machine lea rning  
• Dimensionality reduction, clustering, and mixture models  
• Semi -supervised Learning  
• Recommender systems  
• Business applications of predictive modeling and mining health records  
• Natural language processing, graph mining, and social media analytics  
• Word a nd document embeddings  
• Neural Networks  
• Graph representational learning and graph convolutional networks  
• Time series analytics  
• Sports analytics, and other topics  
Instructional Method:  
 
Materials presented in this course will  be covered through lectures, video-lectures , 
quizzes , homework assignments , and a project . Most of the concepts will be covered  
through the use case -based  hands -on experience. In the end, students will have both the 
theoretical understanding of machine learning  concepts and concrete expe rience of 
putting such concepts and principles into practice.  
 
 
 
 
 
Textbook s: 
 
There is no required textbook  for the class, however the following reference books are 
highly recommended : 
 
1. “Hands -On Machine Learning with Scikit -Learn & TensorFlow” 1st Edition, Aurelien 
Geron, O’Reilly Publishing, 2017  
2. “Applied Predictive Modeling ”, Kuhn, Max and Johnson, Kjell, Springer 2016 (e -book 
available through library login)  
3. “Python for Data Analysis: Data Wrangling with Pandas, NumPy, and IPython ” 1st 
Edition, by Wes McKinney, O'Reilly Publishing, 2013  (latest edition is also ok)  
4. “Mining Massive Datasets” by Jure Leskovec, Anand Rajaraman, Jeffery Ulman, 2nd 
Edition, Cambridge  University Press, 2015  
5. “Machine Learning : A Probabilistic Perspective ” Murphy,  Kevin,  MIT Press, 2012  
6. “Deep Learning”  Goodfellow, Ian; Bengio, Yoshua; Courville, Aaron, MIT Press, 2016  
 
 
Course Requirements and Grading Policy:  
 
Group p roject    35%  
Homeworks ( 4-5)   50% 
Quizzes    10% 
Class  Discussion      5% 
 
Group Project Grading Breakdown:  
1st written submission – project description  & presentation   25% 
2nd written  submission – method selection & preliminary results  35% 
Final write -up & project presentation      40% 
 
Additional Policies:  
 
Attendance:  
 
Students are expected to attend all class meetings and to arrive before the class starts. 
Class topics are integrated , with each week building on prior weeks. Failure to attend or 
to arrive on time can adversely affect both individual performance, ability to contribute to 
the group project, and the earned letter grade. If a student misses a class due to work or 
other rea sons, it is their responsibility to get notes from peers; instructors do not hold 
extra repeat class sessions.  
 
 
Grade Discussions:  
 
The instructor  and TA will discuss grades only in-person or via Zoom (and not via e -
mail) and only with the student (not with parents, spouses, etc). Office hours are listed in 
the syllabus .  
 
 
 
Academic Integrity:  
 
All students are expected to adhere to the  UNC Charlotte Code of Student Academic 
Integrity  (http://legal.uncc.edu/policies/ps -105.html ) as specified in the current  Catalog   
(http://catalog.uncc.edu/  ). Among other things, this code forbids cheating, fabrication or 
falsification of information, multiple submission of academic work, plagiarism, abuse of 
academic materials, and co mplicity in academic dishonesty.   
Diversity Statement   
No student will be discriminated against in the class based upon age, race, nationality, 
religion, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, v eteran’s status, country of 
origin, or group affiliation. Likewise, all participants in this class will be expected to 
respect other members who fall into these categories. Any student who does not behave 
in a respectful manor with  their classmates will be  withdrawn from the class.  
 
Special Needs:  
If you have a documented disability and require accommodation in this course, contact 
Disability Services, Fretwell 230, phone: 687 4355 voice/TDD) the first week of the 
semester.  Information about available ser vices may be found at 
http://legal.uncc.edu/policies/ps -51.html . Accommodations for learning will be arranged 
by that office and communicated to the Instructor.  If you speak English as a second 
language, please inform the instructor.  
 
Religious Accommodation:   
It is the obligation of students to provide faculty with reasonable notice of the dates of religious 
observances on which they will be absent by submitting a Request for Religious Accommodation 
Form  to their instructor prior to the census date for enrollment for a given semester 
http://legal.uncc.edu/policies/ps -134.html  .  The ce nsus date for each semester (typically the 
tenth day of instruction) can be found in  UNC Charlotte’s Academic 
Calendar  (http://registrar.uncc.edu/calendars/calendar.htm ) . 
 
Inclement Weather:  
 
University Policy Statement #13 states the University is open unless the Chancellor 
announces that the University is closed. The inclement weather hotline number to call is 
704-786-2877. In the event of inclement weather, check your email the morning of 
class.  The instructors will use their best judgment as to whether class should be held 
understanding that some of you commute from far away and the instructors will notify 
you by email if class is cancelled.  
 
 

===================[Syllabus End]===================
Please examine the attached course syllabus carefully and provide detailed answers to the research questions (RQ) listed below. Each question focuses on specific aspects of "computing systems" tailored for AI/ML scalability. We are looking for specific issues and topics related to compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, code optimization, programming model for AI/ML covered in the syllabus. Programming with Python or jupyter does not count as computing system topics.

RQ 1. Course Content and Frequency:
1.1 How frequently are topics explicitly related to "computing system" specialized for ML/AI discussed in the course? 
The topics are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in likert scale: 
Frequent (4): At least one dedicated lecture discussed the topics.
Intermittent (3): The topics are discussed occasionally. 
Infrequent (2): The topics are rarely mentioned.
Never mentioned (1): The topics are never mentioned.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 2. Definition and Understanding:
2.1 How are the impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML explicitly defined and explained in undergraduate curricula? 
The definition and explanation should include concepts of 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): Provide detailed definition and explanation.
Inadequate (2): Many of the topics missed significant discussion in lectures or in assignments.
Undefined (1): The topics are mostly undefined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
2.2 Do courses provide a comprehensive and explicit definition of impacts of "computing systems" on AI/ML?
The definition and explanation should include concepts such as 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer by providing the list of above topics (1 to 9) discussed in the course. Make it short and direct. Limit in 100 words. Do not include topics unrelated to "computing systems" like general ML/AI algorithms.

RQ 3. Requirement Specification:
3.1 How are computational performance and capability requirements for hardware and software systems running scalable AI/ML, explicitly specified and discussed in undergraduate courses?
Topics include 1) Computational Power (CPU, GPU, TPU, Edge AI chips), Memory and Storage, Network for scalable (parallel and distributed) model training, inference; 2) Distributed Computing Frameworks such as TensorFlow's Distributed Strategy, PyTorch's Distributed Data Parallel (DDP), and Horovod 3)  Optimization Techniques such as Efficient Algorithm, Quantization, Prunning 4) Programming Models and Abstractions such as High-Level Libraries (Tensorflow, PyTorch, Keras)
Answer in Likert scale: 
Quantitatively (3): The lectures or assignments provide numerical values for computational performance and capability requirements such as latency, throughput, resource utilization etc.
Qualitatively (2): The lectures used descriptive terms.
No guidelines (1): The Lecture provide no guidelines.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
3.2 How did the discussion of “computing system” requirements rank against the discussion of general AI/ML topics?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Equally discussed with other AI/ML topics (3)
“computing system” requirements is a sub topic (2) 
“computing system” requirements were never discussed (1) 
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 4. Influence and Importance:
4.1 How is the importance of various “computing system” factors of designing and maintaining scalable AI/ML emphasized in the course?
The factors are 1) scalable (parallel and distributed) model training and inference; 2) testing, debugging, and monitoring of ML applications; 3) ML programming models and abstractions; 4) programming languages for machine learning; 5) ML compilers and runtimes; 6) specialized hardware for machine learning; 7) hardware-efficient ML methods; 8) machine learning benchmarks, and tooling.
Answer in Likert scale: 
Holistic (2): The course took into account of many of the above factors.
System (1): The course viewed the factors as low level system issue, relegating responsibility to correct choice of hardware, programming model and AI/ML framework.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.

RQ 5. Case Studies and Real-World Applications:
5.1 Are real-world case studies involving hardware and software systems for AI/ML, with a focus on scalable model training, inference, and serving explicitly included in the curriculum?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Major (2): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was the major concerns of the case studies.
Minor (1): Computational performance and capability of the underlying system was not a major concern of the case studies.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 6. Awareness and Integration of AI-Specific Engineering Practices:
6.1 Do the courses discuss contributions and best practices from AI/ML system engineering communities, specifically in areas such as compilers, runtime systems, hardware acceleration, and code optimization?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The courses thoroughly cover contributions from AI/ML system engineering communities and best practices in detail by depicting from state of art.
Inadequate (2): The courses mention the topic but do not cover it in sufficient depth or detail.
Undefined (1): The coverage of this topic in the courses is unclear or not well-defined.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
RQ 7. Projects and Practical Implementation:
7.1 To what extent do the assignments in the course provide hands-on experience with designing, building, and maintaining both scalable hardware and software systems for AI/ML, specifically focusing on compiler optimization, optimizing runtime systems, hardware acceleration, or code optimization for AI/ML?
Answer in Likert scale: 
Adequate (3): The assignments thoroughly cover these areas and provide extensive hands-on experience.
Inadequate (2): The assignments cover these areas minimally and do not provide sufficient hands-on experience.
None (1): The assignments do not cover these areas or provide relevant hands-on experience.
Could not be evaluated (0): Insufficient information or exposure to the assignments on the syllabus to provide an evaluation.
Provide the score based on overall discussion of the above topics. Do not rate each topic individually. No explanation needed.
